I was confused because I couldn’t understand why anyone would want to hurt, let alone kill a farmer. They quite literally feed everyone, whether it comes directly from their land to your hand, or a local produce stand. So I took to Twitter to see what information I could gather from the popular hashtags. I learnt almost in seconds that many people would not wear black or protest in solidarity with white farmers because many felt they were “getting what they deserved”. This upset me because it is no one’s responsibility to end the life of another because of how they may feel about a situation. It is my understanding that these farmers, who are white, hire black people to work their farms. (Hmmmm can you see where I’m going with this? If not, stay with me, because you will). On these farms, Twitter noted that the working conditions are horrible. Women are raped, the workers are paid beyond unfair wages and several black workers have even been shot and killed and buried (some while still alive), because farmers “mistook them for monkeys”. I even saw a photo of a half circle of about 10 white farmers taking aim at a group of perhaps four black workers so close, I know the farmers could see the sweat beads on their faces. In case you haven’t caught on, this sounds a lot like the mistreatment black people received from their white masters during slavery. (I guess I should’ve mentioned I am from the States.) The mistreatment most of these black farm workers receive in 2017 sounds a lot like modern-day slavery. However, despite the information I read on Twitter, I still covered the protest as eagerly as I would any other story. I wasn’t sure what was true and what wasn’t, and needed to hear both sides before forming an educated opinion. I was able to speak to a pastor of the Mizbah farm church. His overall message was that those protesting on #BlackMonday just wanted everyone of all races in South Africa to come together and basically “stop the madness”. When I asked him why it only seemed to be white farmers and white people at this protest, he quickly stated that the protest had nothing to do with race, stating: “We’ve got a group of black men that came, we’ve got black people here.” I quickly scanned the room, but could only count six black men in a crowd of at least 60 white people. I asked him why the leaders spoke in Afrikaans if they wanted all races to stand in solidarity with them. He had no response. He said he could not understand why someone would hurt the old farmers, after I asked if he could understand their anger towards white people still mistreating them more than 20 years after apartheid ended. His response? “The men who are being killed had nothing to do with apartheid. I can understand if they are perhaps upset with the grandparents and great-grandparents of these farmers who are being killed, but not the farmers themselves.” It became very clear to me that he did not understand the frustration of black South Africans and the mistreatment they still receive daily. This statement and T-shirts stating “No food without Boers”, and T-shirts and flags with the apartheid flag made it very clear this protest had everything to do with race. Placards of the black supporters simply read, “Stop Farm Murders”. One white man, David Van Wyk, took to social media and wrote: “I will not wear black on Monday, because it is a race-based campaign predicated on a lie. The lie is that white farmers are politically targeted for murder and brutalisation. Crime, brutality and violence affect black South Africans to a far greater extent than the white population in general and white farmers in particular. Add to this the structural violence of poverty, inequality, unemployment and a failure by the state to provide adequate services and exclusion from the land and real economic opportunities, and the violence against the majority of our people becomes unbearable. AfriForum is only concerned about human rights of one section of the population, a privileged, wealthy racial minority. This is why they cannot expect support from the rest of the population.” #BlackMonday is for every person who has lost a life in South Africa, but the farmers seemed to make it about them. Then it hit me. This protest was exactly like the #AllLivesMatter protest seen back home (in the US). For those not familiar, I’ll explain. After the death of several black men and women at the hands of police brutality, three courageous black women began the #BlackLivesMatter movement. This movement has never said black lives matter more than any other. But that black lives matter, too. White people were not seen being killed for walking down the street with a hood up. Their deaths were not broadcasted live on Facebook. They were not shot and killed in cold blood while unarmed. But white people did not see it as that. They saw the protest as suggesting that black lives were more important, and in turn created #AllLivesMatter. Now, the details of the protest here and there are not exactly similar, but there is a common theme. When it comes to the well-being of others, solidarity is not needed. But when it affects them, we must all stand together. This opinion piece is not meant to hurt or disrespect the lives of farmers lost in any way. This is not a hate piece towards any farmers of South Africa. You are needed. You are appreciated. We are grateful. It is also not meant to validate the anger and frustration black South Africans bottle up when they are treated inhumanely because of the colour of their skin. Because this anger and hate does not validate taking a life. But farmers, before you ask all of South Africa, people of all races, to stand in solidarity with you, think. Have you stood with others in solidarity on an issue that doesn’t directly affect you? More importantly, why are these workers so angry that they feel the need to kill? Have you mistreated them? How does the aftermath of apartheid still affect South Africa’s society today? Why are they angry? There is hate, yes. But where does this really stem from? Idowu is a graduate of the Medill School of Journalism, Northwestern University in the US, currently doing a residency at the Pretoria News. angelidowu3@gmail.com, twitter: @angelidowu3