The push for greater innovation is happening throughout the country, and the Department of Science and Technology is leading the charge. “Even during our economic difficulties, we must continue to invest in research, development and innovation, as an indispensable driver of social and economic progress.” Accelerated and more inclusive social and economic progress should be the thing that drives all South Africans. Government, through the Nine-Point Plan, has laid a strong foundation to ensure greater economic growth in various vital sectors of the economy. The plan targets the key constraints to ensuring economic growth and job creation and sets out a series of interventions to overcome these constraints. This Nine- Point Plan is being implemented across various sectors of the economy, and has highlighted the important role of science, technology and innovation in growing our economy. The National Development Plan also identifies the important role of science, technology and innovation in achieving the country’s longer-term vision. Almost every facet of our lives is affected by science and technology on a daily basis, often without us even noticing. Science and technology is present in the cars we drive, our smartphones and the devices we use at work. Technology is all around us and is ever changing. Therefore, research and investment in new innovations are essential.  Our investment in science, technology and innovation ensures that we give our country a competitive edge and leads to greater prosperity, more entrepreneurs and jobs. Through projects such as the Square Kilometre Array, which is an international partnership to build the world’s largest radio telescope, South Africa is fast emerging as a premier destination for science, technology and innovation. The potential economic benefits from the SKA are enormous and R134million has already been spent on local suppliers for the construction of MeerKAT and other related projects. The MeerKAT is the precursor to SKA, and is by its own right a mega radio telescope. However, the real magic is happening at local level because of the commitment of the Department of Science and Technology to make science and technology accessible to all. Success stories include a local technology start-up in Philippi, which has successfully developed and piloted a nutrient recycling technology, which converts organic waste to animal feed. Another innovation is in the agricultural sector where a revolutionary wheat breeding platform is assisting South African wheat producers to increase their production and enhance food security for our people. Through its focus on increased drought and heat tolerance there will be potential for higher yielding cultivars. New technology is also shaking up the health sector and ensuring greater health outcomes for people in poor and marginalised communities. South African researchers from the CSIR, the MRC and the University of Pretoria have developed a low-cost Doppler ultrasound device, known as Umbiflow, which improves primary health care services for pregnant women. A vital part of this drive for innovation is to ensure support to emerging SMMEs. These enterprises offer an important vehicle for sustainable social and economic inclusion, and their sustained success will ensure that we address poverty, inequality and unemployment. Over 70% of the SMMEs supported by the Department of Science and Technology are black-owned. Notable success stories include Elvema Nutrition, a black-owned SMME that offers clinical trial services and manufacturing of its in-house products. Its moringa fortified products are being produced on a large scale and sold at major South African outlets. Mamoa, a Midrand-based company, has developed a body care range of products, which is stocked by 17 pharmacies; the company is also in talks with Pick *  Pay to stock its products. Another company making waves in this market is Ardhi, which has developed a skin nutrition body care range, and is part of the Tsogo Sun supplier development programme for spa and hotel amenities. These successes, together with numerous other innovations are shaking up the South African market. By addressing everyday problems they are changing lives for the better. We are further leveraging the important impact of science, technology and innovation by forming strategic partnerships on the continent and with our Brics (Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa business communities) partners. The development of skills and industrialisation is key to unlocking the economic potential of our region. A crucial part of this is ensuring that SADC nations partner with and benefit from the ICT and digital technology dividend. Further afield we have been working to develop an ambitious Brics science, technology and innovation partnership.  Through our National Research Foundation, we have ensured a number of collaborative research and innovation projects between the Brics partners. South Africa is also leading the development of an ambitious Brics big data programme. These developments will ensure that South African science, technology and innovation remains at the cutting edge.  However, just as important is cultivating the next generation of innovators and scientists. The NRF is tasked with growing the next generations of scientists and does this through significant funding support of honours, masters and doctoral candidates. Besides this, in 2005 the Department of Science and Technology started an internship programme which placed graduates (bachelor’s, honours and master's) in science, engineering, technology and innovation institutions. To date this internship programme has committed more than R300million in support of 4282 interns, most of whom are black (90%) and women (60%). Most of these have gone on to secure employment, while others were supported to undertake further studies by the National Research Foundation. These young and innovative thinkers are at the forefront of driving the change we want to see. They are the pioneers of tomorrow who will ensure that we move South Africa forward. The words of OR Tambo, one of South Africa’s greatest sons, are a constant reminder that we must strive at all times to build a better tomorrow. Addressing the nation in 1985 on Radio Freedom during the height of apartheid, he made a clarion call for lasting change. “We have advanced a great deal towards the realisation of our goal of a united, democratic and non-racial South Africa. There can be no stopping now. There can be no turning back.” These words said all those years ago are still so relevant today. The world of science, technology and innovation is advancing rapidly every day.  There is no stopping it, and there is no turning back. It is now up to us to ensure that the science, technology and innovation all around us works to the benefit of all people. It is up to all of us to use the public resources effectively and efficiently to build a better future for all our people. Naledi Pandor is Science and Technology Minister.