The employee at Tshwane Bus Services (TBS) received top accolades from city councillors at the Sammy Marks Council Chamber. He had entered the competition organised by the metro council’s transport department, which required the drivers to demonstrate that they stuck to the rules of the road at all times. The purpose of the competition was to enhance the driving skills of bus drivers in order to minimise road accidents. In one of the activities, the drivers had to show off their skills by slowing down a bus during rush hour traffic, especially when approaching a stop sign. Pitted against more than 50 fellow drivers, Ramutumbu came up tops. He walked away with first prize in the male drivers’ category and then became the overall winner in the competition. On his victory, he said: “I only practised for two hours before the competition. That was not enough, but my extensive years of experience in driving came handy.” He said his secret to success on the road could be attributed to the measure of patience he always displayed to both passengers and fellow road users. “One needs to be patient on the road to avoid road rage and other unnecessary quarrels. I am always patient when transporting my passengers and they see that in me,” he said. As a token of appreciation, Ramutumbu was presented with a trophy and a medal for being the city’s most skilful bus driver. The father of two said what gave him fulfilment was a safe trip around the city with his passengers. “My passengers occupy a special place in my heart. I like people to always be happy. I just like working with people. Having said that, I must say I was happy to be recognised for the good work I do in the municipality. This is something I had learnt over many years,” he said. Making sure he safely transports his passengers to their destinations for the two years he has worked for the bus service is what kept him going every morning. “Passengers always say they are thankful to me for making sure I get them to work on time with no accidents.” Before he joined the department, Ramutumbu worked as a long-distance bus driver. However, he said he did not miss the long-distance trips because they were exhausting, and they stole the valuable time he wanted to spend with his family. In 2008, he worked as a taxi driver, and he swore he never had a bad reputation of being a reckless driver. “I know that some taxi drivers have the tendency of driving on the shoulder of the road, but I never used to do that. I don’t drive in the yellow line because it is against the law,” he says. Ramutumbu has tips for fellow drivers: they must always strive towards being good to each other on the road. “Don’t be quick to react to bad behaviour by other road users; don’t retaliate when someone has provoked you. "I don’t want to put the lives of my passengers at risk so I don’t get provoked very easily by other road users,” he said. Ramutumbu says he also learnt to be a disciplined driver while working at Unisa as a staff driver. “There the passengers from the university would report me for any bad driving and I would always be called in to my boss’s office to account. "I eventually took the complaints as a lesson. "I told myself that I wanted to learn from my mistakes. "I wanted to be a better driver and today I am proud of myself,” he said. Ramutumbu says he is grateful for the love he receives from his passengers and promises to treat them with respect and the dignity they deserve. “To the passengers I would like to say that they must not be worried when getting on the TBS bus, because the drivers are always mindful of their safety. "They are skilful drivers and careful on the road.”