The day was declared so in 2013 by the United Nations. According to the organisation, the horrifying fact is that 4.5billion people in the world live without a household toilet that safely disposes of their waste. The South African Early Childhood Review 2017 released in October by Ilifa Labantwana, said 1.5million more children under the age of six lived in households without a toilet or a ventilated improved pit latrine in South Africa. “Poor living conditions affect hygiene, health and food preparation in households; they can lead to the spread of diarrhoeal diseases and other infections such as
pneumonia. "These diseases are among the main causes of child deaths.” The review stated that between 2002 and 2015 the number of
young children living in households that had poor sanitation was
halved. “At least 24% of young children lived in households with poor sanitation in 2015, down from 53% in 2002,” the report said. To tackle the sanitation crisis, the Department of Water and Sanitation will today hold a workshop in the Eastern Cape addressing health and hygiene management, linking municipal officials to water and sanitation management practices at local schools. The department stated the reasons behind addressing sanitation at schools. It said: “Toilets at many of South African schools are dangerous, dirty and degrading. “In fact, because toilets are often monitored less than any other
area of the school, if they are
monitored at all, they could well be the place where they pose the greatest threat to the very lives of learners, who could fall into the pit and drown. “And unpleasant toilets that are not monitored can create humiliation. "All of this negatively affects teaching and learning.” The department said pupils who felt afraid and uncomfortable in
toilets would not be able to thrive in the classroom. “Pupils who get diseases from the toilets miss learning time. "A situation where pupils feel that they cannot use their school toilets because they are dangerous or degrading undermines their physical health, psychological well-being and academic progress. “This situation needs to be resolved." In 2013, the family of Michael Komape sued the National Department of Basic Education and the Limpopo Department of Education for damages after the five-year-old boy fell into a pit toilet at a Polokwane school and died. The matter is still before the courts. The workshop aims to address and share strategies and guidelines relating to school sanitation management practices, and launch the newly completed Water Research Commission Handbook on school sanitation management. Participants will share knowledge and existing guidelines available to enable municipal officials to work with schools.