The National Taxi Association plans to go on a strike on Wednesday. This comes hot on the heels of a protest last week that saw many matriculants arriving at exam centres very late after thousands of people blocked roads in protest against farm killings. The taxi association has warned commuters to make alternative plans on Wednesday when they plan to take over the streets of Pretoria to force the Transport Ministry to listen to their grievances. Its spokesperson Theo Malele said the march will first go to the Department of Transport offices before heading to the Union Buildings. Malele accused Transport Minister Joe Maswanganyi of arrogance and refusing to engage with the industry. “We want to deal with the arrogance of the minister who refuses to give attention to a host of grievances in the taxi industry. We have issues with the new Aarto (Administrative Adjudication of Road Traffic Offences) bill and the unworkable taxi recapitalisation process and operating licence problems. Drivers want an increase in the amount they get paid when they hand over their old taxis as part of the taxi recapitalisation plan. Currently owners are given R84000 for an old taxi. The drivers’ gripe with the Aarto bill is that for every traffic offence, a driver’s licence gets a demerit until they lose their driving permit. Taxi drivers were to go on the march last month but it was cancelled at the 11th hour after Maswangayi agreed to meet them. Malele has accused Maswanganyi of not sticking to his promise. “We were supposed to have our march on October 19 and the minister asked us to postpone it. “The minister failed to honour his promise and if matrics miss their exams, the blame should be placed squarely on the minister,” Malele said. Matric candidates will sit for the English paper 2 exam on the morning of the strike. Last Monday,  the Gauteng Department of Education had to give candidates concessions after they arrived late for their exams because of the Black Monday protests. In some cases, candidates were allowed to write their exams at alternative centres as the protest against farm killings blocked the main highways in Gauteng. Department spokesperson Steve Mabona said a contingency plan was in place for exams should the strike go on as planned. “In the event learners are late, as a result beyond their control, all chief invigilators will know how to manage their examination. “We appeal to learners to try to use alternative means to reach their centres. All those learners who do not make it will be managed administratively,” Mabona said. It was worrying that there were protests that impacted on matric candidates, he said. “It is unfortunate that we experience activities that are disrupting our examination process. The integrity of our examination is our priority and as such we call on all to respect this important moment in the education sector,” Mabona said. In June, South African National Taxi Council drivers went on a protest, blocking highways in their fight against exorbitant interest rates they said they were being charged when buying new vehicles. Malele said they were expecting members from throughout the country to descend on Pretoria. “This means there will be lack of transport in some areas. “People must also expect traffic on some routes because everyone will be driving to converge in Pretoria. We want this protest march in a peaceful way.” Transport Department spokesperson Ishmael Mnisi said they were surprised by the planned protest. He said in their meeting last month it was agreed that a technical team be formed to deal with the taxi operators' grievances. “The meeting has not even sat and now they want to protest. We have said that government is willing to deal with taxi operators issues.” 