While he was speaking about the impact of rape on Mthethwa's many victims - including a 14-year-old girl - several of them cried bitterly and had to be consoled  by family members. After the court adjourned, the victims said they were happy that  the man who had raped them would be locked up and not be free to walk the streets, but all of them said that as a result of their ordeal, they felt they would never be able to trust men again. Some of the women felt able to cope better than others, especially those with supportive families, but there was no doubt they were unlikely to ever fully recover from their experience of being raped. Mthethwa's case is one of the many of its kind heard in the High Court in Pretoria day after day and year after year. It never gets easier to hear the stories of these women and children, no matter how long you have been writing about it. Looking back at my career of more than two decades as a court reporter, it is not the murder cases as much as the rape cases of anonymous women and children that I struggle to shake off. Sitting in court day after day, I feel empathy for the victims of rape. Child victims in particular really get to me. The victims who survive have to learn to live with what has happened to them as they try to rebuild their lives. As the 16 Days of  Activism for No Violence Against Women and Children kicked off for 2017, a case of a father’s pornography  addiction was heard in court. The man is addicted to adult and child pornography. His addiction extends to his own two young children - a boy aged 3 and a girl aged 4 - who he has photographed naked. He will probably go to jail for a very long time. The state called for an 18-year jail sentence for the 38 year-old man, who may not be identified in order to safeguard his children. The court heard how over many years the man had downloaded about 19500 pornographic pictures - some highly disturbing in nature - from the internet. Hundreds of these pictures depicted teenage porn. The footage involving his daughter was described by the judge and the prosecution as “a sick action”. The parties agreed that the children should not be asked to testify in aggravation of sentence, so as not to again subject them to trauma. Despite this, these children will forever remain victims, and without counselling they are likely to struggle to have normal sexual relationships. Perhaps little Poppie Koekemoer was fortunate not to survive and have to relive the pain adults inflicted on her.  Over a period of more than a year, she was subjected to the most horrendous torture allegedly at the hands of her mother Louisa Koekemoer (after whom she was named) and her stepfather Kobus Koekemoer. The pair pleaded not guilty to murdering Poppie and their trial is still ongoing, but they were at a loss to explain how the child was found to have suffered brain injuries when she was declared dead on arrival at hospital. The little girl's body was covered in bruises from head to toe, her injuries so extensive that the doctors who gave evidence did not even count all the injuries. The blow that is said to have finally killed her was a vicious kick to the stomach -  as if she was an object, not a little girl. The response of the child's parents is not new to me as a court reporter. Their inability to explain or justify what they have done is similar to the host of other child abuse cases I have heard before court. It is only human to want answers as to why abuse happens. Why do intruders rape grandmothers? Why do men kill their partners? Why do parents abuse children? These questions are seldom -  if ever -  answered in court. While judges do their best to mete out significant sentences, they too, appear to be increasingly defeated as no matter how stringent their sentences, the scourge of abuse against women, children and vulnerable groups continues. The UN's theme for the 16 Days campaign this year is “Leave No One Behind: End Violence against Women and Girls.” Our company's campaign is entitled: “Don’t Look Away!” We have to keep on hoping, no matter how hopeless it seems, that perhaps, eventually, the message will register that abuse of women and children is not acceptable in civilised society, and those who do not believe it must face up to the consequences.