But during my visit last Thursday by road, we encountered only three roadblocks. These were manned by the military, and the police were conspicuous by their absence. I learnt later when I got home that things had changed. The police commissioner was one of the “criminals surrounding Mugabe”, who included cabinet ministers held by the army on a litany of allegations. These included exacerbating the suffering of the people; and the commissioner’s officers had been ordered to stay off the roads. One of the ministers was reportedly found with $10 million (R139m) stashed in his house at a time when the ordinary man is battling to access their money in banks. My visit coincided with the march by people last Saturday in solidarity with the army which had taken over government and confined President Robert Mugabe to his residence. The joy was palpable - people from all walks of life came together awaiting news of the former strongman’s resignation. But for some time he dug in, vowing to stay on and preside over his party congress slated for next month. His picture at the party headquarters was trashed as were road signs bearing his name, marking the dawn of a new era. To his credit, however, Mugabe did a lot for which some sections of the society will remember him long after his departure. After leading Zimbabwe to independence in 1980, he confounded his critics and extended an olive branch to his enemies, pledging to work with all in rebuilding the country torn apart by a bruising war. He was feted the world over and his name was synonymous with the Zimbabwe brand. The country became a shining example and beacon of hope for South Africa and Namibia, which remained under apartheid rule as former foes north of the Limpopo settled in to develop their country. And for years the country thrived as it assumed breadbasket status in the region. The spectacular fall of Mugabe on Tuesday, however, did not come as a surprise. The writing had been on the wall for some time. Mugabe had been rejected at the polls by his own people but hung on thanks to the military and tacit support of friends in the region, including South Africa. To thwart Mugabe’s bid to create a family dynasty after claims he wanted to install his wife Grace as his vice-president following the expulsion of Emmerson Mnangagwa from the party and vice-presidency on allegations of lack of probity and undermining the president, the military saw the light and shifted to the side of the people. Had the military not stood in the way of the people, Mugabe would have been confined to the scrapyard of history way back. One big lesson to be drawn from the ignominious exit of the Zimbabwe strongman after 37 years at the helm of government is that SADC should refrain from nurturing despots and work to ensure peace and stability in the region through fair and undisputed polls. Because of its proximity, when that country coughs, South Africa catches the cold. The dire results have been a scramble for dwindling job opportunities and failure by South Africa to adequately provide for its own as foreigners streamed into the country, fleeing conflicts in their own countries. South Africa is well placed this time around, as SADC chair, to help lay the ground for free and fair polls in the post Mugabe era. Though the “Crocodile” (Mnangagwa) has not covered himself with glory over the years as a Mugabe protegé, my fervent prayer is that as he serves out the remainder of his former boss’s term, he will atone for his sins over his perceived role in the killings in Matabeleland in the 1980s and rebuild bridges to the international community which Mugabe had burnt to set the country on a revival path. After watching Mugabe soil his own legacy, Mnangagwa surely wouldn’t like to follow suit but confound sceptics by restoring pride of his compatriots in being Zimbabweans. But a daunting task awaits him as he courts the world again. He needs to move away from the shadow of Mugabe and assure all and sundry that he’s his own man and the country is open for business. His work is cut out for him; analysts have been generous with advice on how to turn around the country and his people’s suffering should cajole and help him to hit the ground running. After removal of the stumbling block in the form of his former boss, the nation hopes “The Crocodile” won’t disappoint but return the country to its rightful place in the community of nations that abide by the rule of law. Oliver Shambira is a sub-editor at the Pretoria News