News broke out recently that he had spent more than two months at the Chris Hani Baragwanath Hospital in Soweto. While it was believed the Motsweding FM presenter and SABC TV commentator was recovering, he succumbed to illness. Family spokesperson Kenosi Modisane said they were greatly saddened by his death. “As we all know he has been ill for quite a while and spent his time in and out of hospital, his condition deteriorated recently,” Modisane said. The 50-year-old Manyaapelo was among the popular radio and television sport commentators in the country. Born at Bophelong Hospital in Mahikeng, North West, Manyaapelo began his career at the now defunct Radio Bop in 1984. According to information from Motsweding FM, he won his first award for being a best radio commentator in 1986. The station listed 12 awards under Manyaapelo’s belt, including one in 2008 from the Pan South African Language Board “for purity of language”. The SABC often roped in Manyaapelo’s services in major events. He was part of its team that broadcast the Fifa World Cup tournaments in 1998 and 2010. “The country has lost a very great man in Manyaapelo, and his work will continue to bring us great insight and understanding of the world of sport for decades to come,” SABC spokesperson Kaizer Kganyago said. “His ability to use Setswana for football commentary inspired many youngsters and attracted them to the sport field,” added Kganyago. Modisane, who was also Manyaapelo’s friend, described him as a Setswana linguist of note in addition to being a “living encyclopedia in terms of sport”. “He was such a great child of Mafikeng. Cebo put the Setswana language on the map. He was the pride of the Batswana people. “A walking Setswana dictionary, he had the honour of being honoured by the president of Botswana for his promotion of the language,” Modisane said. He revealed that Manyaapelo passed on just two days before a golf day was held at the Leopard Park Golf Course, Mafikeng, in his honour. Manyaapelo used to organise an annual golf day to raise funds for destitute children. It was held in Kuruman, Northern Cape, in May. “To honour his contribution and his anthropological activities, the golfing fraternity in Mafikeng arranged for a golf day on Friday. “That still stands. “He passes on when we were going to celebrate and honour him while still alive. “We just missed it with a day.”