After losing the first three matches of their campaign, the Cobras won both of their fixtures this weekend and will feel much more confident of making the cut for the playoffs as this Ram Slam progresses towards its business. Duminy won the toss and put the Knights in to bat after the earlier game of the double-header day was won by the chasing side. The Cobras’ bowlers responded well by breaking partnerships often enough to keep the visitors from going on to too big a score. Rory Kleinveldt (3/19) shone with the ball as he accounted for opener Leus du Plooy (16 off 15) and then claimed the two big fish of Theunis de Bruyn (40 off 22) and David Miller (50 off 37). That Kleinveldt consistently troubled the batsmen and conceded under five runs to the over will go some way in silencing his many critics who that believe he looks overweight and unfit. Ferisco Adams (0/21) was the other bowler whose performance was worthy of note as the all-rounder bowled with impressive accuracy and was rewarded with a miserly economy rate. With Kleinvedt and Adams as the pick of the bowlers for the second time this weekend, Proteas Wayne Parnell and Dane Paterson won’t find it easy to get back into this side. The Knights’ 159/7 should not have posed too daunting a tally, even if the wicket did slow up a bit as Table Mountain’s shadow stretched across the lush outfield, but the Cobras certainly did not find the chase straightforward. Richard Levi (3) and Temba Bavuma (7) stayed true to their poor form of late and Hashim Amla (29 off 24) scratched around before he played on to the spin of Eddie Leie (2/38). JP Duminy once again had his work cut out for him as wickets fell around the skipper and he had to anchor the innings. At 108/6 in the 16th over the run rate required touched 11 rpo and it looked as if Duminy was going to run out of partners but he finally found some assistance in the form of big Vernon Philander (22 not out off 11) and the large home crowd were treated to lots of fireworks as the pair crafted a quick 50 partnership and the Cobras got up in style with six balls to spare. Meanwhile, in the earlier match a scintillating knock of 89 runs by Colin Ingram helped the Warriors chase 183 runs with four wickets, their first RamSlam win of the season, and rounded off a miserable visit to the Cape by the Lions who also lost to the Cobras in Paarl on Friday. Jon-Jon Smuts won the toss and elected to bowl first on a sunny and blustery day where the Lions’ openers made use of a great batting surface accumulating 87 runs before Rassie van der Dussen (45 off 30 deliveries) was given LBW to Smuts, despite being a long way down the track. Reeza Hendricks (81 off 63) continued his brilliant form - he averages 106 from five innings this tournament - and was kept jolly company by an innovative and impressive 21 year-old Ryan Rickleton (43 off 23) on debut. The pair benefited from some sloppy Warriors fielding as they put on 82 runs from only 46 balls. The Warriors bowling left much to be desired but both bowling and fielding proved challenging during heavy gusts by the Cape Doctor. The Lions total is generally a winning score at Newlands and they got off to a handsome start with the ball when Kagiso Rabada (3/25) made light work of both opening batsmen and reduced the chase to 13/2 in the third over. Gihahn Cloete (one) nicked off and was dismissed to an incredible catch by Mangaliso Mosehle with the gloves, diving to his left in front of first slip. Colin Ingram (89 off 48) picked up the pieces and consolidated with Colin Ackerman (17 off 17) and then looked to up the ante with Christiaan Jonker (39 off 28) in the middle overs. The 12th over proved a decisive turning point when Aaron Phangiso was taken to the cleaners and pummeled for 25 runs from the over by way of some wonderful stroke-play. The next thing to go the way of the Warriors took place on the first ball of the 14th over when Marques Ackerman did that extraordinary trick of catching the ball and then threw it back in as he went over the boundary and then miraculously caught it again. The batsman was Ingram on 57 and he wasn’t walking anywhere until the third umpire had had a good look at his monitor, which revealed that Ackerman’s foot had touched the rope before catching the ball. A six was awarded to the Warriors, which confirmed the little-known rule. Rabada came back on to deny Ingram his century and Jonker fell too but Lesiba Ngoepe (10) chipped in and Maphelo Nqolo (12 not out) saw the elated Warriors side home with an over to spare.