The award recognised his consistent and professional service to clients. “This award serves to show that our work does not go unnoticed. I am truly inspired and motivated to do more after this award,” said Ndlovu, who has been working at Groenkloof since 2008. He added that working in the animal and conservation space was more that just a job; it was also a calling. “You need to have the passion because that makes you last through the difficult times. We don’t only do this for a cheque at the end of the month,” Ndlovu said. He was among the conservationists honoured by South African National Parks (SANParks), who went beyond the call of duty in the execution of their duties. They were recognised during the “Oscars of the conservation world” at the CSIR Convention Centre on Thursday night. The event was nothing short of great, with mouthwatering cuisine and exceptional entertainment by the Soweto Opera Quadro. More than 40 winners in their respective categories took turns to collect their well-deserved Kudu Award, in the form of a bronze sculpture of a kudu head, a certificate and a cash prize. SANParks chief executive Fundisile Mketeni said the awards honoured people for their meaningful contributions to the protection of the environment through various means, which reflect society’s admirable social responsibility - giving meaning to the SANParks vision. The awards evening also saw SANParks staff members being rewarded through the Chief Executive Awards. A total of 30 such awards were handed out this year. They ranged from the Shield Award, Best Customer Service, Best Constituency Builder and Best Ranger Post, to Best Performing Camp, Best Performing Park of the Year, Best Performing Entrance Gate/Reception, Excellent Performance in the workplace and Overall Best Performer. SANParks board chairperson Joanne Yawitch bestowed a Lifetime Contribution Award on Ananias Mulhovo from the Kruger National Park. Mulhovo joined SANParks in 1971 as a general worker in technical services. Always willing to assist at any given chance, Mulhovo was assigned to the Skukuza Camp maintenance team in 1998, where he continued to serve the camp with distinction until his retirement last month. “When you enjoy your job like I do, time flies. I cannot believe that I was at the park for so many decades seeing the lifetime achievement award and certificate is proof that I deserve this prestigious honour,” he said. Mketeni also bequeathed two CEO Special Awards to Dr Freek Venter of the Kruger National Park and Ronnie Steinbrucker of Table Mountain National Park for the massive impact they have had in their various operations of SANParks. This year’s winners have spent over three decades each of unbroken and loyal service with SANParks.