Gareth Newham, head of the ISS justice and violence prevention programme, said: “It is of great surprise that people who believe that you need to have integrity, honesty and ability if you are going to assist in making South Africa a safer place would put her in charge of the organisation. “This is a political move, when she was national police commissioner, she favoured Popcru and they were always strongly behind her. “This is just a way of them to say thank you to her for all the support she gave them while she was national commissioner and to give her another lifeline.” It was announced last week that Phiyega would soon take up a position as chief executive of Safer South Africa Foundation. The foundation is linked to one of Cosatu’s biggest affiliates, Police and Prisons Civil Rights Union. Phiyega was the national police commissioner when the Marikana massacre in which 34 people were killed at Lonmin’s mine occurred. Popcru came out in defence of Phiyega at the time, saying she should not have been implicated in the massacre, but the commander in charge on the ground at the time should have shouldered the blame. The Farlam Commission of Inquiry into the massacre found that Phiyega had misled the commission, made cover-ups and that she was incompetent. A subsequent inquiry recommended that she be dismissed for her role in the Marikana massacre. Phiyega was suspended until the end of her contract in June this year, which was not renewed. Anti-crime activist, Yusuf Abramjee said although Phiyega was never found guilty of a crime, her credibility in the safety and security sector was damaged. “Phiyega’s credibility has been tainted. Her tenure was a complete failure, because of her lack of crime-fighting experience. “The fact that she has been appointed in the sector speaks volumes about this organisation and it is a mistake.” Phiyega did not respond to messages and phone calls yesterday. Chairperson of the foundation, Dr Tshenuwani Farisani said they had looked at her strengths, capabilities and capacity and decided she would be able to assist the foundation to build a safer South Africa. The foundation works with various stakeholders to make South Africa a safer place. Asked whether it was morally permissible to have Phiyega lead the foundation, Farisani emphasised that she had never been convicted of any crime. “In SA we promoted forgiveness and reconciliation, our commitment to that should be stronger than the tendency to condemn. “I appeal that we support her,” he said. Popcru spokesman, Richard Mamabolo, said it was no secret that they interacted well with Phiyega, but denied having a hand in her appointment. “We welcome the appointment and we will not shy away from saying we support her. The board appointed her and there is nothing political.” Mamabolo described Phiyega as a capable leader who can take South Africa forward in the fight against crime.