The 27-year-old from Ladysmith in KwaZulu-Natal was allegedly shot dead by her former boyfriend, a fellow peacekeeper, at a camp in the Eastern Democratic Republic of Congo. It was reported that her killer was in a critical condition in a Goma hospital, having tried to commit suicide after the incident. Major-General Eddie Drost, deputy chief joint operation division, said: “It was an unfortunate incident that took place on October 27 where one rifleman shot another rifleman, but we are not sure of the circumstances at this point. You will understand that this needs to go through the normal legal processes, investigations and those types of things.” He said the body was repatriated back to South Africa on Friday following the tragic incident. “This is the formal military honours that we pay to the body and the whole aspect of receiving the body back from the external world. The military views it to be a highly unfortunate incident and we condemn it. “We are a disciplined force and we don’t expect things to happen out of the ordinary like this,” Drost said. Ngeleka’s relative, Thandeka Mthombeni, said the family was devastated by the news of her sudden death. “My sister and the family are deeply hurt. The death has affected them very badly.” Mthombeni said she last saw the victim in June during the burial of her twin sister. “We were at home and burying her twin sister. She came in a little bit late because she was back from work. When she came she hugged us all us a family. She showed that happiness; she was happy,” she said. She said Ngeleka’s 11-year-old daughter always complained to her that she missed her so much because of her constant absence at home. “She would ask her; mommy why do you work far away from me? Why did you decide to take such a job that takes you far away from us? The child was not happy about mommy’s job,” Mthombeni said. She said Ngeleka was working at 5 South African Infantry Battalion in Ladysmith and had joined the army in 2011. A memorial service had been planned in Ladysmith, where the victim owned a house, Mthombeni said. She will be buried on Saturday.