War and conflict are often used synonymously to describe extreme forms of violence or armed conflict often between states. War implies the pursuit of objectives using violence. War is thus an act of violence waged within an environment of fear, uncertainty and insecurity, threats and real harm. War often results in internal and external displacement, severe loss of human lives and livelihoods as well as emotional distress. Global statistics on fatalities caused by war show that in 2012, 51 active conflicts resulted in 110000 deaths while in 2014, 42 active conflicts resulted in 180000 deaths. In war times, rape is also rampant as it is used as a weapon with countries such as the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and South Sudan recording alarming levels. This is because rape is associated with power. It is a strategy of humiliation, subjugation and control that is used by opponents predominantly on women and girls during conflict. Coming back to South Africa, gender-based violence is a deeply rooted and widespread problem, affecting almost every aspect of life. It disproportionately affects women and girls, is systemic and deeply entrenched in institutions, cultures and traditions. Women in South Africa are not able to fully enjoy their freedom that was supposedly attained in 1994 due to the constant fear they live in.  Research conducted by the Medical Research Council in 2012 indicated that intimate partner violence was the leading cause of women homicide with a woman being murdered every eight hours by a partner. With the 2011 census results showing that females make up 51.6 % of the population, this means that a significant representation of the country’s population lives in fear of losing their lives. South Africa has been dubbed the rape capital outside war zones, competing with countries in conflict such as the DRC and South Sudan. According to the 2015/16 SAPS annual crime report, 51895 sexual offences were reported with rape accounting for 41503.  During the previous year (2014/15), sexual offences accounted for 53617 cases and rape for 43195. For a supposed post conflict nation, such statistics are staggering. Also, with various studies showing low levels of reporting for sexual violence and rape, these statistics only represent a portion of the sexual violence that women experience in the country. With most of the rapes happening in private spaces, it means women and girls live in fear of sexual violation in their homes. While rape as a war crime is recognised by the UN Security Council Resolutions, which also provide recourse for such violence with the International Court of Justice, in South Africa there are high levels of impunity. Research done by the Centre for the Study of Violence and Reconciliation (CSVR) in 2009 on rape attrition cases in Gauteng found that only 42% of arrested perpetrators were charged and only 17.3% of those cases resulted in trials. Of the cases that resulted in trials, a rape conviction was only secured in 4.1% of cases. Thus rape survivors live to see their abusers walk free and in some instances rape them again. Thus, while in conflict situations, rape is a weapon of war, in South Africa it has become a war of rape. Domestic violence is not criminalised and normally falls under assault with intent to cause grievous bodily harm also known as assault GBH, common assault and murder. The SAPS crime report shows that 182933 cases were recorded in 2015/16, while common assault had 164985 cases. While these statistics are not peculiar to domestic violence, they also include  29.9% of common assault cases reported in Gauteng as domestic violence related incidents, while the same analysis in Mpumalanga put the figure at 19.5%. Domestic violence often happens in residences and private spheres, meaning that not only are women and girls not free in public spaces where they are constantly expected to police themselves and watch their backs for safety, but they also live in fear, distress and suffer physical, emotional, financial harm in places that ought to be safe spaces. Such conditions are no different from a war environment. This begs the question why South Africa is constantly referred as a post conflict nation, when more than half of the population is living in conditions similar to armed conflict settings? We can also ask under what circumstances violence is regarded as war? Should war only be recognised when it uses weaponry, when men declare it and fight each other or can the violence on women’s bodies and livelihoods by predominantly men be considered as war? Who reserves the right to declare which form of violence is war? And why is it important to recognise the violence on women’s bodies as war? While peace has no single definition and is dependent on the one defining it, it certainly does not include the presence of fear and subjection of one’s life to threats and possible harm. Just over half of the population in South Africa are women who are more prone to gender-based violence. It is time we realised that the country has not yet transitioned from conflict. It is time to acknowledge that the nation is still living under war conditions, and the transition mechanisms used at the end of apartheid did not take into cognisance the violence on bodies of women and girls. The same concerted efforts and determination used to end apartheid should be adopted in addressing gender-based violence. Mangwiro is a lawyer passionate about advancing human rights particularly women’s rights and peace work.