The houses at the centre of the dispute were built in 2011 at Serote Stand section. The rightful owners said they were angry when their houses were subsequently occupied by unknown people from outside the township. David Mahlangu said he had been subjected to death threats from an illegal occupier, who had repeatedly refused to vacate the house inside his yard. Mahlangu said he lived in a shack while he was the owner of a piece of land where the house had been built. He said he was shocked one day when he came back from work, only to find out that a stranger had occupied the house. According to him, the illegal occupier told him she was given permission to move in by the committee members in charge of the house allocation. Shocked by their response, he contacted local councillor Esther Motsomane, who allegedly insisted that Mahlangu let the new occupant be because she was an old woman. “I was at work in Joburg and when I went back home I found the house was occupied. The councillor told me to leave the woman to occupy the house because she is old,” he said. Motsomane, however, flatly denied allegations levelled against her, saying she did not have the right to allocate people houses. “All the people who previously occupied those houses were ordered to move out,” she said. She said those who still encountered problems of illegal RDP house occupation must report their complaints to her office in the township. “Those who want to complain must come to my office because those houses have rightful beneficiaries,” she said. Motsomane said she had been threatened with death last year when she attempted to intervene in a fight over the ownership of the houses. “Those I had told to vacate houses in the past had threatened to burn my house down and kill me. For three months last year, I was taken to a place of safety by the municipality because of the threats to burn my house,” she said. She said some houses were vandalised by nyaope boys, who also used them to do drugs. She said MMC for human settlements Mandla Nkomo promised to intervene in the ownership dispute. Pretoria News