This was the message yesterday when religious groups, churches, taxi associations, funeral parlours, community members and other stakeholders descended again on the R80 Mabopane Highway for the fifth annual spiritual intervention on the accident-prone road. Organiser John Molepo said the Mabopane community had been moved by gruesome accidents that had occurred in recent years and wanted to keep highlighting the dangers of reckless driving to others. He said the community would continue to take part in the road safety campaign year after year as motorists persisted with driving recklessly when police were not visible. He said: “We are to blame for the numerous accidents we witness on a daily basis. This is because as soon as we pass the metro police, we remove our safety belts and start drinking and driving as we please. “It is pivotal that we intensify road safety campaigns, especially as we approach festive season. Accidents on this road have decreased and we can only hope that our prayers are being heard,” Molepo said. From January until this month, the Mabopane Highway had witnessed 249 accidents, with one occurring almost every weekend. He said this time last year the number of accidents stood at 304. MMC for agriculture and environment Mike Mkhari applauded the community members for continuing to take it upon themselves to curb road accidents on the road they use every day. He said it was important that other communities also took the extra step, pulling together all stakeholders to work together to make sure the roads were safe. “For us to protect and take care of our families, we need to start off by changing our attitudes while on the road. This is a public road and we all need to respect and comply with the rules of the road,” he said. Mkhari said the City was also dedicated to increasing awareness by ensuring there were campaigns every month and not necessarily waiting for the festive season to act. “If we wait until Easter or December or any other public holiday and long weekend, it would be too late. So we want to ensure that every day becomes an awareness day to our residents,” Mkhari said. A moment of silence was held for all those that had perished in accidents in previous years on the highway, while participants lit candles and laid them down in a circle.