Since then, most nations ratified a number of children’s rights, among them the right to life, health, education and play, as well as the right to family life, to be protected from violence, to not be discriminated against and to have their views heard. In 1998, South Africa adopted the 16 Days of Activism for No Violence Against Women and Children Campaign. For the past 19 years, November 25, as Children’s Rights Day, has preceded and anchored the 16 Days of Activism Campaign. Our country has been an active member of the global community in observance of the International Day for the Elimination of Violence Against Women and Children, International Human Rights Day and World Aids Day, all of which are part of the 16 Days Campaign. This year, we will be paying particular attention to the protection of children. Befittingly, this year’s 16 Days of Activism Campaign, under the theme, “Count Me In”, aims to give impetus to the fight to eradicate violence against women and children. This is an immensely important battle in our context given that South Africa is historically a patriarchal and violent society. This negative legacy of apartheid exists even today and it manifests itself in gender-based violence and femicide. The patriarchal system manifests in many ways. For instance, girls and young women continue to bear the brunt of poverty and the associated social malaise typified by commercial sex work, teenage pregnancy, limited access to quality education and human trafficking. Young women suffer from substance abuse, unemployment, gender oppression and gender-based violence. Even though equality between men and women, girls and boys is enshrined in our constitution, in most cases girls and women are accorded lower social status and find themselves under the control and authority of men. The unequal power relations in 
society lead to the exploitation of girls, hence the need to transform power relations in all sectors of society beginning at home and moving through to the heart of the economy. Also, we appear to be an angry nation. This is reflected in our families where negative language gets used with reckless abandonment, thereby fuelling embedded anger. Gauteng seems to be the hardest hit. We have seen femicides, homophobic attacks and the frightening tales of cruelty against children as told in the media: a 15-year-old boy takes his own life because his grandfather has an affair with his 14-year-old friend; guards sexually molest masses of children and, in some cases, girls as young as eight years old are raped daily at school and at home. As part of efforts to ensure a co-ordinated and sustainable response to these challenges and spate of violent attacks on women and children, the Gauteng Provincial Government has launched a five-year campaign under the theme “Invest in a Girl Child and Empower a Young Woman”. Premier David Makhura has appointed Gauteng Social Development MEC Nandi Mayathula-Khoza as the campaign co-ordinator. One of the activities planned is a march against the abuse of girls and violence on young women. No less than 10000 marchers - most of them learners - are expected to take part. The march will mark the launch of 16 Days of Activism for No Violence against Women and Children Campaign in Gauteng on Friday, departing from Hunters Field in Thokoza, Ekurhuleni. It is scheduled to take place every year on November 25 to coincide with the UN Orange Unite Campaign which is observed globally every month on the 25th. The City of Ekurhuleni was identified as a targeted area due to the high incidence of gender-based violence and other social pathologies affecting women and girls as well as the LGBTIQ sector. This campaign is principled on 
our constitution, which is world-famous as being among the best. Section 28, which deals with children’s rights, is particularly a jewel aspect. It promotes children’s rights admirably. It places the responsibility for their care in the hands of all adult citizens, anticipating that the protection of children is not only the responsibility of a child’s parents 
or guardian. The noble idea reinforces Africa’s well-known notion that a child belongs to a village. Consistent with the spirit and the letter of the constitution, while it provides for state intervention, the Children’s Act relies on families and, by extension, communities to care for and protect their children. This is the case because the constitution insists on the involvement of the community and family. In other words, it aims to preach to each of us that my child is your child and your child is my child. As per the dictates of our noble constitution, the Gauteng Provincial Government advocates for volunteerism. As such, we support NGOs and community groups that champion effort to help abused women and children. All Gauteng residents are called upon to take part. Everyone can play a role: we can volunteer our time and make a contribution to the work of institutions, help plant a garden at a shelter, sponsor plastic tables and chairs for kids at a clinic or join an organisation as a counsellor. Everybody can use their skills and knowledge to help the victims of abuse by speaking out against woman and child abuse, encourage silent female victims to talk about it and ensure they get help or at least report child abuse. If you are affected, seek help. If you are emotionally, physically or sexually abusive to your partner and/or children seek help too. Call the Stop Gender-Based Violence helpline at 0800150150. Let us heed OR Tambo’s words: “A nation that does not nurture its youth, does not deserve its future.” Xaba is the spokesperson for 
Gauteng Social Development MEC Nandi Mayathula-Khoza