They traded in their signature orange uniforms for soccer kits in pursuit of being crowned Gauteng’s best. The soccer grounds at Kgosi Mampuru II Correctional Centre were abuzz with inmates showing off their exceptional skills and tricks during the lively soccer tournament watched by warders and pupils from around Pretoria. Spectators cheered while music played in the background and other inmates danced for entertainment. Although the inmates were in a joyous mood, they were heavily guarded. Inmates involved in the soccer tournament included those who were due to be released soon as well as those serving long sentences. Mohau Theledi, 47, from Soshanguve, who is serving a life sentence for murder and hijacking, said soccer was the best way to keep him from thinking too much about the people he has hurt in his life. “A healthy body creates a healthy mind. Soccer is helping me overcome my regrets and sorrows,” he said. Theledi admitted that doing nothing in prison was detrimental. “You must understand that in jail there are murderers, hijackers, rapists and outlaws in general. When we sit together, we contemplate ways to get out or make money inside the prison,” he said. Most of the inmates attend school at the prisons, and Theledi said playing a sport was helping them to concentrate at school. Another inmate, serving 25 years for rape at Zonderwater Correctional Centre, said the games were an eye-opener to the amount of raw talent that was hidden behind bars. The MEC of Community Safety, Sizakele Nkosi-Malobane, who also made an appearance, said doing nothing in prison was extremely detrimental. “An idle mind is the devil’s workshop, and in prison it is worse. That is why we need to keep the inmates busy to avoid further damage from the inmates,” said Nkosi-Malobane. She said the department initiated the Get Out, Stay Out social cohesion programme to fast-track the rehabilitation process. It is aimed at making sure that all inmates who have served their time get involved in activities that will lead them to become rehabilitated and responsible citizens.