Should people be allowed to smoke cannabis in the privacy of their homes? If yes, how will they be protected from being targeted by police officers when they procure the cannabis? These are some questions Constitutional Court justices had to contend with yesterday about the use of cannabis for cultural, religious, medical and recreational purposes. The NPA and six government departments, including police, health and trade and industry, brought the matter to the Constitutional Court in an appeal against an order by the Western Cape High Court allowing people to smoke cannabis in their homes. Garreth Prince argued that although the Western Cape order allows him to smoke cannabis in his home, it still made him a target for the police. “Even when I am allowed to smoke in my home, I am not allowed to cultivate it. I get prosecuted for planting one of the country’s biggest resources. “This order still allows me to be victimised. The high that the criminal justice system poses to me is more harmful than cannabis.” Prince argued that cannabis wasn't banned because of health issues, otherwise other substances like cigarettes and alcohol would also be outlawed. “It is common cause that cigarettes are the number one killer. The state allows you the right to drink yourself to death and to smoke yourself to cancer so they should also allow us to smoke cannabis. Equality demands it,” Prince, representing himself, argued. To prove the point, Rastafarians sang and lit up joints outside the court. An act that, according to counsel for the State, advocate Thomas Bokaba, places a huge burden on the health system. “It has also been linked to crime and domestic violence. Cannabis is different from the other substances in that it affects the brain. It causes psychosis and schizophrenia especially in young people.” Bokaba also said unlike other substances, it was hard to regulate the potency of cannabis. Dagga Party founder Jeremy Acton said the right to smoke cannabis at home infringes on his rights of association. “This doesn’t allow me to integrate with society like someone who smokes cigarettes. It prevents me from relating with other adults." Acton also argued that he could be targeted by police while he goes to buy the cannabis which he intends to consume at home. “My rights are only protected when I am at home and not in my car or if the police search me." So-called dagga couple Myrtle Clarke and Julian Stobbs were also in court. They have a case in the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, calling for the legalisation of cannabis. The Constitutional Court reserved judgment.