This is according to Grade 11 Pretoria High School for Girls pupil Kiese Mpasa, who was among five pupils who visited the Pretoria News as part of World Children’s Day commemoration. They spent two hours in the newsroom and opened up about children’s concerns in general. With children celebrated globally the United Nations Children’s Fund (Unicef) has urged children from around the world to take over key roles in media, politics, business, sport and entertainment. The vibrant and well-spoken Mpasa said it was okay that children were being celebrated, but the world needed to express the dignity and rights they were entitled to. “The celebration is important, but at the end of the day it is not about spending one day commemorating children. They are entitled to being taken care of, freedom to dignity and the right to free education. These should be practised every year, so the fact that children have rights is known,” the 17-year-old said. This year, Unicef has allowed children to take over and make the day all about them. Mpasa said she appreciated the opportunity and the group noted the significance of making it about them as it gave them an opportunity to prove themselves. Yastiel Pillay, 15, from Crawford College, said children were worth being celebrated every single day. “It shouldn’t just be on one day that we are celebrated. You know when you are celebrating your birthday, it’s one day of the year that is dedicated to you, but this occasion should be every day,” he said. Nqobile Nkosi, 15, shared Pillay’s sentiments on children being worthy of celebrating every day. Dominique Binns, 17, also from Crawford College, said the promotion of the day was important to make the public aware of the rights children had and violations they experienced. Established in 1954, the day is celebrated on November 20 each year to promote international togetherness, awareness among children worldwide and to improve children’s welfare. Its establishment was to encourage countries to institute a day, to promote mutual exchange and understanding among children and to initiate action to benefit and promote the welfare of the world’s children. See Page 7