When world football’s dignitaries gather alongside the expected presence of President Vladimir Putin for a World Cup draw televised live around the world, all eyes will be on four pots and 32 small plastic balls containing the names of the teams participating at next year’s tournament in Russia. Neither the doping scandals, which have made Russia something of a pariah in world sport nor the Fifa corruption saga, are likely to be a welcome subject for football VIPs’ small talk at the ornate 6 000-capacity concert hall in Moscow. Yet, doping allegations continue to swirl around Russia following the reports by investigator Richard McLaren on systematic doping including at the 2014 Sochi Games. Meanwhile, the Fifa corruption affair rumbles on as former executives of the sport’s world ruling body currently stand trial in New York. Football is not unaffected by the Russian doping allegations. The hosts were clearly vexed at the summer’s Confederations Cup to have to respond to reports its national team was involved in doping machinations. These were described as “made up news” by World Cup organizing committee chief executive Alexey Sorokin. And although Qatar 2022 has been the chief focus of bribery allegations, the integrity of Russia’s World Cup bid has also been under 
question ever since the Fifa executive committee chose the 2018 and 2022 hosts in a controversial 2010 vote. Russia has always denied any wrongdoing and said in the summer it was vindicated by Michael Garcia’s report into the bidding process. Much has changed at Fifa in the four years since the last World Cup draw when Joseph Blatter headed the organisation and secretary-general Jerome Valcke was master of ceremonies on stage at Costa do Sauipe. Both have since been banned from football, while Jose Maria Marin, the former president of the Brazilian football, is one of the South American former Fifa executive committee members on trial in corruption proceedings in New York. Now Gianni Infantino is at the Fifa helm but the former Uefa secretary-general has also been on the defensive as he tries to restore the ruling body’s reputation. “There are a lot of fake news and alternative facts about Fifa,” he said earlier this year in response to continued criticism of governance at the ruling body. “Fifa bashing has become a national sport in some countries. It was right but Fifa has changed now.” In Moscow, Fifa at least won’t have to worry, as they did four years ago in Brazil, that the hosts won’t be ready on time for the June 14-July 15 tournament. Russia appears to have got its planning right, having budgeted for some $11 billion (about R150bn) to stage what is another prestige event for Putin following Sochi. As the first snow of winter is swept from the Red Square, football’s ruling body can be forgiven for wanting this week to enjoy a warm Russian welcome and celebrate what is always an eagerly-anticipated event. For the 30 national team coaches in Moscow for the draw - only Uruguay and Australia are absent - the focus can now turn to their group opponents and final planning. The 21st World Cup tournament staged at 12 venues from Kaliningrad in the west to Yekaterinburg in the east (some 3000km by road), and from Saint Petersburg in the north to Sochi in the south (about 2000km as the crow flies), presents plenty of logistical challenges. At least no one - least of all his six million Twitter followers - have to wonder what Gary Lineker will be tweeting during the draw. The former England striker and 1986 Golden Boot winner will have his hands full hosting the event alongside Russian sports journalist Maria Komandnaya. Lineker’s participation has led to some caustic comments on social media. An outspoken critic of Fifa, he said in 2014 he felt “sick” about the corruption within the body and called the decision to stage the 2022 World Cup in Qatar “ludicrous.” But for now, in Moscow, Qatar is another story.