Survivors and Egypt’s top prosecutor have given accounts of the massacre that unfolded as more than two dozen assailants, carrying a black IS banner, unleashed gunfire and explosions during Friday prayers at the Al-Rawdah Mosque in a sleepy village by the same name near the small town of Bir al-Abd. The attackers arrived in five SUVs, took positions across from the mosque’s door and windows, and just as the imam was about to deliver his sermon from the pulpit, they opened fire and tossed grenades at the estimated 500 people inside. The worshippers screamed and cried out in pain. A stampede broke out in the rush toward a door leading to the washrooms. Others tried desperately to force their way out of the windows. Those who survived spoke of children screaming as they saw parents and siblings mowed down by gunfire or shredded by the blasts. When the violence finally stopped, 305 people, including 27 children, had been killed and 128 wounded. One of the witnesses, Ebid Salem Mansour, recalled how the attackers shouted “Allahu Akbar” (God is Great), as they fired. So composed were the militants that they methodically checked their victims for any sign of life after the initial round of blazing gunfire. Those still moving or breathing received a bullet to the head or the chest, the witnesses said. When the ambulances arrived they shot at them, repelling them as they got back into their vehicles and fled. Friday’s attack targeted a mosque frequented by Sufis, members of a mystic movement within Islam. Islamic militants, including IS, consider Sufis heretics because of their less literal interpretations of the faith. Egypt’s chief prosecutor Nabil Sadeq said the attackers, some masked, numbered between 25 and 30. Those with bare faces sported heavy beards and long hair, he said. Clad in military-style camouflage pants and black T-shirts, one carried a black banner with the declaration of the Muslim faith - there is no God but Allah and Muhammad is his prophet. Survivors in the Suez Canal city of Ismailia, where some of the wounded are hospitalised, said: “We knew the mosque was under attack.” Mansour, a 38-year-old worker in a nearby salt factory who settled in Bir al-Abd three years ago to escape the bloodshed and fighting elsewhere in northern Sinai, suffered two gunshot wounds to his legs. “Everyone lay down on the floor and kept their heads down. If you raised your head you got shot,” he said. “The shooting was random and hysterical at the beginning and then became more deliberate. Whoever they weren’t sure was dead or still breathing was shot dead.” President Abdel-Fattah el-Sisi vowed that the attack “will not go unpunished” and that Egypt would persevere with its war on terrorism. He did not specify what new steps might be taken. On Saturday, he ordered that a mausoleum be built in memory of the victims of Friday’s attack and cancelled a visit to the Gulf Sultanate of Oman  scheduled for next week. Egypt’s military and security forces have been waging a tough and costly campaign against militants in the towns, villages and desert mountains of northern Sinai, and Egypt has been in a state of emergency since April. Across the country, thousands have been arrested in a crackdown on suspected Islamists as well as against other dissenters and critics, raising concerns about human rights violations. Militants over the past year have carried out deadly bombings on churches in Cairo and other cities, killing dozens of Christians. Egypt’s IS affiliate has also claimed responsibility for the downing of a Russian passenger jet that killed 224 people over Sinai last year. That attack decimated the country’s already ailing tourism industry. Friday’s assault was the first major militant attack on a Muslim congregation, and it eclipsed past attacks, even dating back to a previous Islamic militant insurgency in the 1990s. The death of so many civilians in one day recalls the killing of at least 600 in August 2013, when Egyptian security forces broke up two sit-in protests in Cairo by supporters of Mohammed Mursi, an Islamist president ousted by the military the previous month. The local IS affiliate has targeted Sufis in the past. Last year, the militants beheaded a leading local Sufi figure, the blind sheikh Suleiman Abu Heraz, and posted photos of the killing online. In the January edition of an IS online magazine, the Sinai affiliate vowed to target Sufis, accusing them of heretical “innovation” in religion and warning that the group will “not permit (their) presence” in Sinai or Egypt. Millions of Egyptians belong to Sufi orders, which hold sessions 
of ritual chanting and dancing to 
draw the faithful closer to God. Islamic militants stepped up their campaign of violence in north Sinai after the military ousted the elected but divisive Mursi. Authorities followed up with a fierce crackdown on his Muslim Brotherhood group, jailing thousands. In north Sinai the militants continually carry out surprise attacks, mostly targeting outposts and convoys. - AP