A week earlier the Boks suffered a record - and humiliating - 38-3 defeat by Ireland in Dublin, raising fears Coetzee’s men would again tour through Europe in November and fail to pick up a win, as they did a year ago. But a fired-up Bok team, with captain Eben Etzebeth leading the way, and followed by the likes of Lood de Jager, Malcolm Marx and Francois Venter, upped the ante and helped turn the Boks’ tour around. “It was a pleasing and satisfying effort from the players,” said Coetzee afterwards. “It’s never easy in France and they certainly came out to play. We had to defend strongly throughout, but I thought we showed unbelievable character once again and that’s a sign of something special in this team ... how prepared they are to work hard for each other.” Coetzee explained this was not the first time this season that his players had to stand up and be counted. “We won five in a row (three against France in June and back-to-back wins against Argentina at the start of the Rugby Championship), then drew to Australia and then took nought in Albany. It was a setback, but we bounced back with a draw against the Wallabies again, and a one-point loss at Newlands. “Now, Ireland gave us a drubbing and again we were under huge pressure, but we bounced back (against France). It says a lot about the team’s character and them accepting accountability. “It’s easy when things go well and are working, but it’s when things aren’t working and you’re under pressure when the blame game starts ... but this team stepped up and took responsibility.” It was a nervy performance by both teams, with plenty of errors, but the Boks certainly created more opportunities and looked the better team. However, that does not mean they were clinical or reached a level to suggest they have actually turned the corner on tour. While the pack looked menacing and put in a powerful performance, the backs still looked far from a threatening unit, and flyhalf Handre Pollard’s goal-kicking woes - he left 11 points on the field with four missed kicks - nearly cost the Boks dearly. “This team does not have a lot of experience,” said Coetzee. “Eight players have less than 15 Test caps, this is their first experience of rugby in the northern hemisphere, the conditions, the different mindset. But the players all learnt from the Irish game and bought into the plan for this week ... and they translated what they learned on the training field to the match. We had two draws this year, lost at Newlands by a point ... but what is pleasing about this result is that they closed it out, they finished the job.” With regards to the new-look loose-trio combination, which included the seasoned Duane Vermeulen for the first time since June last year, Coetzee said: “We’ve got a philosophy in the team that the number on the backs mean nothing. They’re all talented players, who can play towards the ball and carry it ... and in Duane we have a line-out option, too. “I’m really pleased with the combination. Dan du Preez was also used for his stopping power, so we’ve really got talented loosies. Pieter-Steph (du Toit) is also back next week so that leaves me with a big headache.” And while Coetzee, like the rest of South Africa, will be concerned with Pollard’s woeful kicking display, he was generally happy with his No 10’s overall game. “Handre has been training with us for a long time, but he’s had little game time. His kicking at goal was sub-standard, not his best, but he slotted a kick at right time (in the 58th minute to put the Boks 11-10 up) and his confidence came back. “I thought his general play was good, he was physical, took the ball to the line, and his performance was a step in the right direction.”