The teenager from Soshanguve, north of Pretoria, has never had a birth certificate, a situation that makes it difficult for him to get an ID document from Home Affairs. Pule relates the story told by his father, Martin Mawela, 65, about why he does not have a birth certificate. His mother, who died three years ago, never went to Home Affairs to register him after giving birth at the Ga-Rankuwa Hospital, he says. The facility was renamed George Mukhari Hospital in 2003. “My mother should have done the right thing from the start,” Pule laments. “Now she’s no longer around to help me sort this out.” Born out of wedlock and to quarrelling parents who are both South Africans, Pule uses his mother’s surname. Mawela, the father, says he noticed when his son was about 6 months old that something had not gone right about his birth registration. “She wasn’t taking him to the clinic," he says about his wife. “We used to fight about this. I then found out that the reason for not taking him was that there wasn’t a birth certificate,” Mawela recalls.“We fought a lot about how we could sort this out, until she died. She never went to Home Affairs; that’s where the problem is.” He admits in hindsight that he should have taken up the matter and approached Home Affairs. “I believed they would need her more than me for birth registration,” Mawela adds. According to the country's legislation, a child should be registered within 30 days of birth. Nowadays, Home Affairs' officials visit hospitals to help parents with registration. Mawela is certain this is a new system. “Back in the 2000s things were not like this. Mothers had to go to Home Affairs (for birth registration and collection),” he says. He points out that he has found no joy at the local Home Affairs branch. Mawela says the officials at the branch directed him to get birth records at George Mukhari Hospital. “But we’ve found nothing at the hospital. They can’t find the birth record,” says Mawela, who insists that his son was born there. “Home Affairs can’t help us because of this.” The mother managed to get the son into primary school without a birth certificate. But he dropped out of school two years ago, when he had to start Grade 8. This was also some time after his mother’s death. Unlike many other cases where children in Pule's predicament are barred from enrolling in school, he was not. But not having a birth certificate contributed to his refusal to being enrolled at high school, he says. Without documentation, he found school a humiliating environment. “I used to play sport. They often had to leave me out, because I could not produce a birth certificate. “When I was very young I did not mind not having a birth certificate. I only started stressing about it when I had to go to high school,” he says. He realises he needs an ID to improve his prospects of participating in the economy. 
“I’d like to be able to help my father. He’s getting old and he's stressing about this too. “It’s a serious challenge not being able to get an ID. I can’t do anything without it. I’m stuck,” Pule adds. A number of South Africans in his predicament have become stateless, meaning they do not belong to any country. Lawyers for Human Rights (LHR), an NGO, has been campaigning for the rights of stateless people in South Africa. It runs a drive called Promoting Citizenship and Preventing Statelessness in South Africa. Liesl Muller, an LHR attorney, says a number of South Africans have ended up stateless after being in Pule's position. South Africans make up half the stateless people in this country, with the other half being foreigners. “It’s a big problem because most of my clients, almost 50% of my clients, are people who are children born to South Africans,” Muller says. “They struggle to get birth certificates, like your example (Pule). A lot of these people are people who should be South Africans, but they can’t prove their nationality.” Pule could become stateless too if his problem is not resolved, Muller points out. “The point is if he can’t prove his nationality then he can become stateless. “If Home Affairs is willing to register him eventually, then he’ll have citizenship. But if things continue like this and for a long time and he doesn’t get his documents, he can become stateless," she warns. Stateless people face insurmountable problems, Muller says. “If you’re stateless, you're a foreigner everywhere. “If you’re stateless normally you don’t have a document, which means you can’t go to school, you can’t get a legal job, you won’t be able to get medical aid, you won’t be able to register your own children, you can’t get a driver’s licence.” David Hlabane, Home Affairs spokesperson, urges Pule to return to a branch where officials should explore late registration of birth. “The father would need to go back to one of our offices and apply for registration of birth. It’s quite a process because then they’ll need to investigate it. “He’d have to demonstrate, one way or the other, that the child is indeed a South African citizen. It’s a pity it’s a process, but there are no shortcuts to it,” Hlabane says. Muller says the department also has an option of allowing Mawela to prove his son’s nationality through DNA. “It sounds to me like this case can be easily resolved. The father could get a DNA test done. “Home Affairs can give him a referral form to a lab, so that he can have a DNA test and then they would be able to get him registered.”