Confusion and anger deepened in Harare last night after the army called a press conference in which its boss Constantine Chiwenga read a carefully drafted statement indicating Mugabe had agreed to some of their demands, and urged Zimbabweans to go back to their lives and not riot or destroy property. Chiwenga added that former vice-president Emmerson Mnangagwa, who was unceremoniously fired by Mugabe, would “return to the country shortly”, ending almost two weeks of a bloodless coup that brought hope to Zimbabweans who saw this as the end of the Mugabe era. But the ruling Zanu-PF and the opposition Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) insisted they would proceed with a motion today to impeach Mugabe. “Mugabe has raped Zimbabwe for 37 years. He has raped us enough,” said firebrand MDC MP James Maridadi, who has attempted to impeach President Robert Mugabe previously. Speaking to Independent Media in Harare yesterday, Maridadi said his move to impeach Mugabe was not inspired by the current political situation, but because the president had over the years failed in his duties as head of state, and had transferred his powers to his wife, Grace. His ailing health, poor sense of judgement and lack of response to the rampant corruption in the country had made Mugabe a national liability, he said. Said Maridadi: “How do you run a country in which nobody likes you? He has raped us enough. We can’t allow him to continue to rape us. It’s enough.” Maridadi added that old age and ill-health had rendered Mugabe incapable of running the country. “He has to frequently seek medical attention abroad and sleeps during public functions. “He had collapsed at the airport, in the full glare of the world, because the feet and the brain do not talk to each other,” said Maridadi. As Zimbabweans come to grips with living in an army state, Maridadi has intensified his revolve to impeach Mugabe today when he will move the motion in parliament at 2.15pm. Mugabe’s own party, who fired him on Sunday, is also expected to move a motion to impeach the nonagenarian leader. Zanu-PF deputy legal secretary Paul Mangwana said yesterday he was confident the impeachment would succeed and that they were working with the MDC, who would give them 71 votes, while the other MDC faction led by Welshman Ncube would also donate two additional votes. Zanu-PF said in a statement yesterday that it had instructed its chief whip to proceed with the impeachment proceedings after Mugabe missed the noon deadline yesterday to resign, and that the president had been notified of the central committee’s decision to recall him. This is despite the army last night saying they had resolved the issues with Mugabe, and that Mnangagwa would return to the country. It was unclear last night if soldiers, armed to the teeth, would immediately withdraw from the streets, but  a national shutdown is expected tomorrow. Lawmakers, war veterans and Zanu-PF officials are ratcheting up pressure for Mugabe to go, plotting their next move - in Parliament. “The only constitutional way to remove Mugabe is through Parliament or an election,” said Maridadi.