In an almost three-hour question-and-answer session in the National Assembly that was punctuated by insults across the benches, Zuma stuck to his guns and denied payments by Moodley. Deputy Speaker Lechesa Tsenoli yesterday said he would look into the conduct of DA members after a rowdy session. But IFP chief whip Narend Singh asked Tsenoli to also investigate Zuma for failing to tell MPs how much he has spent on legal fees. The DA has said in the past that Zuma spent more than R10m in court defending the challenge to the decision of the National Prosecuting Authority to drop charges against him in 2009. But Zuma refused to say how much he has spent, and said the records are with the state attorney. Despite reports - published in a book by journalist Jacques Pauw, that Zuma was paid by Moodley - the president denied this. “I have given a categorical answer to the question. There are many books that have talked about Jacob Zuma giving speculation. My job is not to answer books,” he said. Zuma said he did not know why people made allegations against him. He said his speculation was that it was because he was leading the ANC. “I can’t tell you exactly; except my speculation is that Zuma leads the biggest party that has won the elections and they are trying to undermine the ANC,” he said. Zuma also defended Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini over the Sassa and Post Office stand-off. He said he would not fire Dlamini despite mounting pressure for him to do so. He confirmed that he had been chairing the Inter-Ministerial Committee on social development and the grants issue was dealt with. “Right now I have spoken to the Minister of Finance (Malusi Gigaba). The minister of finance is meeting both departments to solve the problem because it has to be solved. I have chaired it (the committee), I am aware of (the problem),” he told Parliament. He said he would not fire Dlamini because she had to implement the Constitutional Court judgment. “You say Bathabile is not a problem of apartheid, she is a problem of what?” he asked DA leader Mmusi Maimane. “Minister Dlamini is dealing with the problem of solving the problem that emerged. The judge of the Constitutional Court gave an order to that minister and that minister has to do that order. If you remove her who is going to deliver that order? She has to deliver that order of court,” said Zuma. Maimane and members of the DA walked out of the National Assembly, frustrated at Zuma’s refusal to answer questions on how much 
he had spent on his legal fees. Outside the chamber, an angry Maimane said: “Clearly he has captured Parliament, he has captured the Speaker, he refused to answer the question. “So how do we proceed; how do you keep proceeding when somebody doesn’t answer questions. It’s an evasion of accountability, the undermining of the constitution. Ultimately, we can’t sit and entertain it,” said Maimane. While the sitting continued, Zuma said he would establish a commission of inquiry into state capture after the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria,   has delivered its judgment. Zuma was in court with the DA last week on the case and the court said it would deliver judgment soon. Zuma also questioned Parliament’s decision to set up multiple committees to investigate state capture. He said he had delayed the commission because of the court case. Zuma also confirmed that nuclear was still on the agenda of the government. He denied that Gigaba and Energy Minister David Mahlobo contradicted each other on the nuclear energy issue - they were raising the timing. “They were not contradicting (each other); they were talking about when do we start."