The event was hosted by Forest Hill City Mall, by the Goat Foundation, which focuses on mathematics, science and leadership activities. “The aim of the awards is to encourage and motivate learners in the Olievenhoutbosch community, for the sterling work done during the three terms of the year. We try by all means to encourage education and we do that through tutoring classes, weekend classes and learners are keen on learning,” said one of the organisers, Duncan Mufamadi. The awards ceremony marked the culmination of a year-long programme run by the non-profit foundation. The past year’s activities saw schoolgoing youngsters involved in debates, green events and leadership conferences. And 15-year-old Mahlatse Legodi, from Steve Tshwete Secondary School, was named GET phase Learner of the Year for the second year running at this year’s ceremony, which she said left her feeling happy and blessed. “What amazes me is that I won the same title last year, and this shows my determination to hold on to that spot,” she said. “When It comes to studying, I make sure I pray first, and study while creating questions to answer later, to assess myself. “I do that for a minimum of two hours every day without fail,” the Grade 9 pupil added, saying she loved mathematics and the sciences, and wanted to be a lawyer one day. Mufamadi explained that the Goat Foundation used social media to attract pupils like Legodi into education by inviting them to check their Facebook page for opportunities for bursaries, invitations to science fairs and letting them know of extra classes offered. The page was also used for other purposes, such as putting up the names of the best achievers and, by that, encouraging others to work hard. “Our top achiever this year is Mahlatse Legodi, and such learners are a great inspiration because she said she wanted to take the top achiever again next year. “Over 3 000 learners in the community competed for Mahlatse’s spot. That spot is very important and we started the foundation for learners in the area to be motivated to work hard for that spot.” Mufamadi said the awards were a great tool to encourage education because only one pupil could be the top achiever. “We accept only learnersn who have an average of 70% in their mathematics and science subjects, nothing lower than 60%,” he said. He said the foundation and the awards had seen a 30% increase in the pass rates of the high schools since inception. Others who walked away with awards were Tshenolo Mokwana, from Olievenhoutbosch Secondary School, winning Best Learner of the Year for FET Phase (Grade 10-12). Best mathematics pupils were Makolane Keletso for GET Phase and Thati Kamogelo for FET Phase, and the best science pupils were Batwali Mondeka for GET Phase and Mokwana Tshenolo for FET Phase. The top achievers were selected by their schools, and they took home a combined 100 FET scholarships worth R32 400 from iCollege. Books and tuition fees were included in the 12-month scholarship, and winners are given the opportunity to enrol for courses including events management, marketing, accounting and human resources. Students who performed well at the end of their year-long courses would either be placed into a job, or they could qualify for another scholarship to study a diploma course of their choice at iCollege. The Goat Foundation was founded by Mufamadi, Msoja Mhlophe and Gift Kekana, meant to deal with community based educational projects and to motivate pupils in Olievenhoutbosch to increase the pass rate in the area. The foundation also offers a minimum of six trips for mathematics pupils, to open their minds to what people outside the community did. “Life within the township can be boring, we are trying to open up their minds to trying new things and seeing new places. Maybe that will make them dream big and have goals,” he said.