There is a need to engage all South Africans in dialogue to ensure this building process is harmonious and inclusive, driven by a common goal that is to see our country flourish. South Africa still has a good story to tell and this remains the story of a prosperous future which all South Africans must share in equally. To quote 16th US president Abraham Lincoln, “The dogmas of the quiet past are inadequate to the stormy present. The occasion is piled high with difficulty and we must rise with the occasion. As our case is new, we must think anew and act anew. We must disenthrall ourselves, and then we shall save our country.” These words resonate the need to effect change, when as a country we are facing difficult terrain. As we deliberate on the way forward there is newness and forward thinking that must emerge. We must persist as we endeavour to realise a better life for all. The vision of a South Africa that is built on the foundations of hard work, integrity and honesty must be kept alive in the hearts of each and every citizen. Our people should always feel proud to be called South African. There is a rich heritage that comes with that privilege. A privilege bestowed upon us by the blood, sweat and tears shed by those who fought for the democracy we call our own today. The reality however, is that in recent times, circumstances have caused this pride to dwindle. This is fuelled by a lack of trust. This lack of trust makes it impossible for us to engage openly and constructively with a view to come up with inclusive solutions to problems that affect us all in some shape or form. It is unacceptable that 23 years since the dawn of democracy there are still communities that do not have access to basic services. Good intentions are not enough to change our course and redirect us to becoming a country that Oliver Tambo believed in and fought for many years. We need implementation that evidences results. Our focal area should be the youth because the decisions we make today will have a significant impact on their future. There are many challenges that they encounter which require immediate attention to allay the desire to resort to violent protests in order to have their plight heard. The current situation is exacerbated by a narrow-based economy, self-interest, corruption which is most obvious in the form of state capture and poor corporate governance structures both in state-owned enterprises (SOEs) and the private sector. As clearly laid out during the Medium Term Budget Policy Statement delivered by Minister Malusi Gigaba last month, the economy needs a near term recovery. The manner in which we have managed SOEs must not continue if we are intent on realising fiscal consolidation and strengthening our financial position. The fiscal drag of SOEs is not sustainable and their complete reliance on bail-outs from the National Treasury needs to be addressed. Liquidating profitable and strategic investments to support struggling SOEs is not financially beneficial. Perhaps examining best practices from other countries like our Brics partner, China, in respect of SOEs would do South Africa good. China adopted creative methods to ensure efficiency of its state-owned entities by creating competition among SOEs and encouraging private sector participation in the funding and ownership aspects while retaining primary control. Low economic growth and activity, subdued confidence levels of both internal and external stakeholders, persistently high structural unemployment and poverty levels and deterioration in income inequality are some of the key challenges we are faced with and our collective resolve is needed to address them. We need to change the notion that transformation is only a redistribution programme - radical economic transformation is a key component of our sustainable growth plan that will ensure greater participation of South Africans in driving the country forward. For the avoidance of doubt, radical economic transformation is not a political slogan but a deliberate strategy to achieve inclusive economic growth. Post-1994 the government has made significant investment in developing the skills of previously neglected communities to ensure that we have a skills base that reflects the demographics of the country. Today we arguably have the deepest pool of experienced and highly qualified black professionals and new graduates who are now looking to make a contribution to the economy. This is a great asset to the country and will indeed prove advantageous to our future growth. Black professionals have a “multiplier effect” often referred to as “black tax” because in most cases their immediate and extended family members rely on them to provide financial support needed for education, healthcare and other important needs. This ultimately alleviates some of the pressure on the government’s social grant programme. This new thrust in the nation’s skill base will be important in the establishment of companies that will create jobs and provide the SA Revenue Service with a broader base for tax collection purposes. The financial sector is a key enabler and catalyst for transformation, but cannot be expected to drive transformation in the economy when it is not transformed itself. The first step in our transformation programme should be to transform the financial sector so that it reflects what we would like to see in the rest of the economy. Currently, capital allocation and investment patterns are not conducive to creating an inclusive and thriving economy. To provide financial support for small businesses we need those making lending decisions to have some experience with small businesses. It is unfortunate that we have moved from a situation where previously neglected communities are now subjected to the unsecured lending bubble that leaves them vulnerable to unfair lending practices. Innovation is the answer. There have been interesting developments in the financial technology space that are disruptive to the traditional financial sector and we need young professionals in the financial services sector to be integral in the creation of these new industry champions. Another opportunity lies with a state-owned or black bank that will provide financial services to people and communities that are still neglected. The SA Post Office has made strides in this regard, has an enviable footprint in the doorway and is in negotiations for the payments of grants on behalf of SA Social Security Agency. It has proven to be pliable into a financial institution that helps us deliver on our promise to ensure a better life for the previously marginalised. Peer-to-peer lending, whether it’s business-to-business or business-to-consumer lending is another innovative initiative that we need to explore further in the financial services sector. There is a gap in the market for more short-term lending like 30 to 60 day loans aligned with what small businesses and people need. Shorter dated loans pose less risk and the interest rates attached to them should be appropriately risk-adjusted to reflect this profile. There are many other areas of innovation that we need to explore and the youth should be the driving force behind this process. *  Dr Mkhize is treasurer-general of the ANC and a contender for its presidency.