The Palace of the Lost City at Sun City, inspired by an ancient myth of an African kingdom lost to the surrounding jungle, has earned its reputation as a luxurious exotic getaway just a few hours' drive from Gauteng. With its grand architecture, world class services and pristine pools and spas, it has been the holiday destination of choice for decades. As the North West destination turned 25 this month, a fitting way to celebrate was a reflection on the past, present and future. This took the form of a time capsule that will be buried on the premises and only be opened in the next two and a half decades, when The Palace of the Lost City celebrates its 50th birthday. The receptacle, buried last Saturday, includes a variety of artefacts and documents from 1992, when the hotel opened, up until this year. It also has a letter from the current chief executive Anthony Leeming "instructing" future generations to read about the current Sun International’s flagship resort, Sun City, plus his predictions for the next 25 years. He said this initiative makes him wonder what the next 25 years have to offer. “We cannot know what the world will be like in the next two and a half decades,” he said. “Who would have foreseen the technological and digital changes that have occurred in our lifetime?” he asked. The world was already such a different place than it was in 1992 and he expected even more extensive changes to  take place by The Palace’s 50th anniversary which will be celebrated in 2042, he said. “Legends rely on the passing of time to grow into myth and so it has been with The Palace, a legendary destination designed by dreamers for luxury-seekers.” "We want to reflect the changes - in everything - in our capsule,” Leeming said. Staffers have also written letters about their experiences at the luxury five-star hotel which will be included in the time caption. Leeming said a miniature statue of Danie de Jager’s famous Shawu the elephant, and branded paraphernalia from the hotel would be included. There will also be photographs of founding father Sol Kerzner and famous guests hosted by The Palace over the past 25 years such as the late pop king Michael Jackson and Elton John. But Leeming said there were also many surprises inside which won’t be revealed yet. “We don’t want to reveal too much about what we will put into our time capsule. “Hopefully, it will be a surprise when it is dug up, and its contents revealed.” When the Lost City complex was built in 1992, it cost R830million to construct. “That was a fraction of what it would cost to build today,” Leeming said. Despite changes to the hotel and in society, attention to detail, special care to guests and excellent service have never changed at The Palace. “With our manmade jungle, world class golf course, superb entertainment facilities, including our magnificent water park, The Valley of The Waves, and gaming facilities, The Palace has been the preferred destination for discerning travellers from around the world,” Leeming said. “We have had a very successful 25 years. We know the next 25 will be equally so, and better.”