Financially, It would become more difficult to treat these diseases, he said. The cost burden of having diabetes was high as the medication, education and complications such as heart attacks were expensive, he said. “The International Diabetes Federation said that treating a person with diabetes costs about R10 000 and looking at the 2.2million people with diabetes in the country, this would simply cripple the economy.” Wellington revealed this during a breakfast conversation hosted by First Lady Bongi Ngema-Zuma's foundation at Villa Sterne Boutique Hotel in Waterkloof Ridge yesterday. Statistics showed that a worrying 20% of children under the age of 5 were already overweight, he said. This painted a grim picture of the future if people did not take the disease seriously. Asked if poverty played a role in diabetes, Wellington said  “unfortunately, yes”. “Cheaper foods tend to be high in  carbohydrates and it is unfortunate that the poor get subjected to that a lot,” he said. Due to this and findings that there were 199million women living with diabetes worldwide, Ngema-Zuma said she hoped diabetes was screened the same way as blood pressure in clinics. “Before you can even tell the nurses what is wrong with you at the clinic they first check your blood pressure. I wish diabetes was screened the same way,” she said. She told those gathered at the event that it was sad that there were people who still thought diabetes was a sickness of the elderly - that was due to lack of awareness. “Lack of awareness is a major problem. Statistics have shown that there are 66% of Africans who have diabetes but do not know. Although we go to provinces and raise awareness, we have not reached out to communities with proper education. “Raising awareness about diabetes is one thing but to educate people on what to do to prevent diabetes and how to manage it, that is not a hit and run job,” she said. She told members of the media that she hoped the breakfast conversation would help get more NGOs and partners for the foundation. She said though she was not diabetic, she had lost people dear to her heart owing to the disease; hence she became mindful of her diet. According to the Society for Endocrinology, Metabolism and Diabetes of South Africa, diabetes is the ninth leading cause of death in women globally, causing 2.1million deaths every year. The foundation noted that two out of every five women with diabetes were of reproductive age, accounting for 60million women at increased risk of difficulty conceiving and poor pregnancy outcomes due to diabetes.