MMC for utility services Darryl Moss said this would be done immediately after the funerals scheduled for this weekend. The children were killed when the light ring fell from the top of the high-mast structure onto them while they were playing on Saturday. Four of the youngsters died on the spot and the fifth in hospital. Moss said the decision to get rid of the structure was taken in the interest of affected families and the community. “We are going to remove the light because it will remind people of the tragedy that happened there,” he said. Moss said City workers did not have access to the high-mast light at the moment due to ongoing investigations by the SAPS and the Labour Department. Acting mayoral spokesperson Lindela Mashigo said the City called for an investigation into the incident. He however could not comment on why the City had not fixed the faulty light despite receiving complaints from residents over the years. “It would be proper to note that the preliminary investigation points to tampering by thieves with a view to stealing infrastructure,” Mashigo said. He said the City would pay for the funeral costs “because we believe that is the right thing to do”. On Monday, angry residents and ANC supporters prevented mayor Solly Msimanga from visiting the bereaved families. They accused the DA-led city administration of failing to attend to complaints regarding the faulty light structure. The residents pointed fingers at the DA despite the fact that complaints had also reportedly been lodged under the former ANC government. According to the residents, the light was first reported about four years ago, when Kgosientso Ramokgopa was the mayor. They told the Pretoria News the light stopped working a few years after it was installed in the 1990s. However, they took their frustration out on Msimanga, who at  the weekend identified the theft of cables as being the cause of the problem. The residents repudiated Msimanga’s version and said the children had not died as a result of cable theft, but because of the council’s negligence in not repairing the light. Resident Muzi Njikho said: “There was no way nyaope people could have tampered with a live electric cable. It could have killed them. "For three to four years we have been reporting the light (problem) because it was not switching on.” Njikho said personnel from the Department of Labour had  inspected the pole on Tuesday. “The guy told people to keep an eye on the ring to make sure it was not stolen,” he said. Another resident, Emmanuel Chauke, said complaints to get the light repaired had fallen on deaf ears for many years. “Our Ward 27 councillor (Maria Rallele) told us the faulty high-mast lighting had been reported to the City on several occasions but it was not attended to,” he added. Mohatla Tseki, provincial portfolio committee chairperson on human settlements, said he was saddened by the tragedy, and sent his deepest condolences and sympathies to the families who lost children. “We are dismayed that this incident undermines the mandate of co-operative governance and urge the municipality to conduct a thorough investigation and provide feedback on the findings as well as mitigating measures to ensure such tragedies do not occur in the future,” he said. Provincial IFP caucus leader Bonginkosi Dlamini said the tragedy must be “a hard lesson to all in government that regular infrastructure maintenance and upgrades are critical and should be prioritised”. “We cannot afford to lose lives as a result of an avoidable mishap.It is the constitutional right of residents to be properly serviced by the municipality and the government, irrespective of where they live in the city. The appearance of prioritising certain areas when doing maintenance is a violation of this right,” he said.