The 17-year-old beat thousands of hopefuls from across the country to be crowned the youngest winner of the musical reality show on Sunday. The Grade 11 pupil won a recording contract, R1million cash, a new car, fashion vouchers and musical instruments. She emerged victorious after a songful, tearful, joyful and tough competition and over 98 million votes cast overall. Paxton, the shy and introvert teen girl who described herself as socially awkward, has become and instant millionaire. The teen from Bishops Lavis is a Grade 11 pupil and had the full backing of her family through the journey. It isn’t something usual to see parents supporting a child who hasn’t finished Grade 12 to pursue and follow his or her dream. During the Cape Town auditions, Paxton was the first to receive her golden ticket, sending her straight to theatre week. It was a long journey, and it ended beautifully for the teenager. However, she insists she still wants to finish her matric, even if she
does so through correspondence or online. “I definitely intend to finish my studies while doing gigs and work towards putting my music out there on an international level,” she said at a press conference following her win. The teenager said she wouldn’t struggle to complete her studies as some of her subjects at the Bishop Lavis school she attended focused on the arts. In the interim, she would also pursue her singing career. “I have been procrastinating and I decided that 2017 was going to be my risk-taker year,” she said. When asked what she would say to 16-year-olds who watched her and were inspired by her new title, she replied: ”Stay away from ‘timid’. “You need to execute and make your dreams a reality. “Work hard, stay grounded, level-headed and always believe in yourself.” The finale, held at Carnival City in Ekurhuleni on Sunday, saw the Western Cape go up against KwaZulu-Natal as Fielies beat Mthokozisi Ndaba to be crowned the Idols SA 2017 winner in the competition’s 13th season. The show’s judges, Randall Abrahams, Unathi Msengana and Somizi Mhlongo said that although Paxton won the title, they considered both finalists winners. Abrahams, who has been an Idols SA judge since the first season in 2002, described Paxton as initially being shy and introverted and said he never imagined she would have blossomed to such an extent. Msengana welcomed both singers to the music industry, while Mhlongo reminded the pair they had no choice but to be superstars. Meanwhile, show presenter 
ProVerb, who is also the show’s executive producer, added that the public played a crucial role. “As an artist, I know the lifespan and it is not easy,” he said. “In order for the Idols winners to remain a success, you need (the fans) to come to their shows, buy their music and support them.” - Additional reporting by Kabelo Chabalala.