From Monday the platform has been flooded with the #101ThingsToBeLeftIn2017 trend, which has been accompanied by memes. Some celebrities and socialites have added ther voices to the list. In one a “Picmixed” Zodwa Wabantu and Skolopad image was posted, and captioned, “I’m not saying much... but these two.” Basically the trend is being used to express what South Africans have loathed and disapproved of throughout the year but have had to tolerate. From clothes, events, music and fashion trends to political decisions, the list is endless. As the county has for the past two years been hit with many racist attacks and slurs, racism was also included in the list. They also did not forget about the cost of data bundles. @pumlacoco said: “Data bundles being so freaking expensive and some of us can’t even afford it.” Village Guy @rodneytomjnr had advice for women saying: “This thing of shaving your eyebrows and drawing them again ladies, it must be left behind please.” Dating for material things like cars, cellphones and houses must also remain behind, according to Twitter user @adamndandu1. Early this year, there was confusion on whether sugar should be added to amasi, which the majority agreed was inappropriate. The issue was brought back into the spotlight this week, with some saying those who added sugar must not see 2018. “Confused people who add sugar to Inkomazi,” wrote @TudediTreezy. Another tendency that does not deserve to cross over to next year was one of friends not notifying others before showing up. “Friends who don’t call before visiting, we have to bath & pretend to be in the mood,” @Treezy_N said. Some also called for the abduction and killings of women and children to come to a stop. While at it, Twitter user @Saintsabotage suggested that people should also talk about #101ThingsToExpectIn2018 and they complied. Under this hashtag positive things were listed. @lee_zorodzai said she was hoping the year could bring success, happiness, health and love. @ndondokhumalo11: “Improvement in our economy, this is not funny.” “Black Twitter must get an award," said @cryptoscopophil. Some just want more and more weddings and free data bundles.