This is according to Health MEC Dr Gwen Ramokgopa, who told the provincial legislature that the upgrades had not done enough. She was responding to questions from the DA’s Jack Bloom. In the written reply, Ramokgopa said an additional R3.9m would be required to bring the ward up to acceptable standards. Ramokgopa said the contract awarded in 2013 was subsequently terminated in 2014 due to poor performance by the contractor who had been paid for the work. The contractor was, however, not paid the full contract price. Mamelodi Hospital head Dr Lesego Pooe said the previous contractor had been paid R2497579 for the construction, and an additional R798285. Pooe said work done included building renovations for plumbing, and the additional amount was for mechanical work done. A new contractor has since been appointed to do the building, electrical and mechanical changes that were still needed. “I am dismayed that a psychiatric ward that should have been completed two years ago is not in operation because of poor building work by a contractor,” Bloom said. “This is the third psychiatric ward at a major hospital that cannot be used because of incompetence or possible corruption in choosing a building company unable to do the job.” Renovations at the Helen Joseph Hospital were supposed to have been completed by August last year, he said. The refurbishment of the ward at Charlotte Maxeke hospital, which commenced in 2014 had tripled to R34m ahead of its completion next year. Bloom said the negligent appointment of inadequate contractors once again highlighted how psychiatric patients suffered because of the incompetence by the Department of Infrastructure Development, which was responsible for hospital building projects. He said the department’s track record spoke to the need for desperate and immediate intervention. “I hope that the new service level agreement the Health Department has signed with them will ensure that only competent contractors are chosen who can do the job on time and within budget.” Pooe said with the new contractor having already commenced with the work, the hospital expected the ward to be completed before the end of the financial term. With fresh complaints of lack of beds and staff shortages at the Mamelodi Hospital having been reported in recent weeks, Ramokgopa also announced that the hospital required a lot of attention. She indicated that various refurbishments were in the pipeline for the current financial year for the hospital, which included installation of compressors with air driers and a filtration system. Other work includes the supply, installation, commissioning and testing of new medical gas bedhead systems in various areas, as well as the building of  a medical ward. Ramokgopa added: “We have taken decisive steps against the contractors who have been robbing the department by providing sub-standard projects in order to ensure that we do what we are supposed to do with our limited budget, and guard against the misuse of public purse.” She added that as added precaution, the service level agreement signed with the infrastructure department had been strengthened to mitigate future risks.