“All I can do now is to rebuild and start afresh. I’m not even asking for the things I lost; I will accept anything, even if it’s a pair of trousers, a mattress or blankets,” Fidulis Mudzamiri told the Pretoria News yesterday. His was among the 80 households left destitute by the fire. They are set on rebuilding their homes. Most of them escaped with nothing except the clothes they were wearing. Mudzamiri sat outside his newly-rebuilt shack still trying to come to terms with the tragedy that had befallen them. He said it was heartbreaking to return home from work to find nothing of the belongings he had worked hard for many years to get. He said he was at work on his late shift when his younger brother called him at around midnight on Friday to tell him a fire had broken out in their area. He said he only managed to get home at 2.20am, by which time everything had burnt to the ground. “I am trying my best not to think of everything that I’ve lost - my generator, TV, sound system, my bed and my clothes - all of them are gone. “All I have left are three items of clothing to my name,” he said. Matebatso Molahle, from Lesotho, said the only thing she managed to save from her burning shack was her passport. She said the fire broke out in a shack a little away from hers and the first thing she thought of saving were her 
documents. “All I have now are the clothes on my back and my passport.” She was on her way home after visiting  a vegetable vendor, carrying a tomato and an onion she had just bought. Her neighbours, whose dwelling was spared, took her in after the fire. “It’s hard to start over when you barely had much to begin with,” Mohale said. All she wants are corrugated iron sheets to rebuild the home she shared with her boyfriend, and from there on they will piece together whatever cash they can to restart her snack-selling business. One man reportedly died in the fire. It was believed the fire started in his shack. While some residents said they had no idea how the fire started, others said a commotion was heard heard shortly before it broke out. It was alleged the man had gone out drinking and became involved in a fight. Four men wearing blankets and mining helmets reportedly followed him home, assaulted and stabbed him to death. The men apparently set his shack alight, and the place smelt of petrol. “When the fire died down, we saw his body with a knife sticking out of his side. “But no one here wants to get into trouble, so we’re all just trying our best to focus on rebuilding our lives and getting by on the little bit we do have,” said a resident, who asked not to be named. Police spokesperson Captain Augustinah Selepe said they responded to the scene and had opened an inquest docket. A case of arson would be investigated, she said, adding that by yesterday the police had not yet begun investigating a case of murder. The City of Tshwane stepped in to assist, and some of the victims were accommodated at an open site near the Stats SA headquarters. Others returned to the site of their original homes and were rebuilding their shacks and lives. Ward 60 councillor Katlego Makgaleng said the nearby Jopie Fourie Primary School had been made available as a drop-off point for any donations businesses or people might want to make towards those who lost their homes. He pleaded with residents to make donations of any kind as the community was genuinely battling to get by, including clothes, food and material to build new shacks. Pretoria News