“The congress has formed two major political judgements. The first is that the principle contradiction in the Chinese society has evolved. It is now the contradiction between unbalanced and inadequate development and the people's ever-growing needs for a better life,” ambassador Lin said. “In the past, the principle contradiction was between the ever-growing material and cultural needs of the people and the backwardness of social production. Today, the needs to be met for the people to live a better life are increasingly broad.” Lin shared with journalists and academics that today there are increasing demands for fairness and justice, rule of law, security, environment, balanced urban and rural development, and equitable income distribution. Central to the outcomes of the congress is that socialism with Chinese characteristics has entered a new era where from 2020-2035 China will strive to become a modern socialist country, and will improve the quality of development. “The congress laid out a new blueprint for China’s socialist modernisation drive. This congress made comprehensive planning for China’s development from now to the mid-21st century,” Lin said. This new era will establish socialist rule of law and comprehensively advance law-based governance. Not only did the congress highlight the new era China is moving into, and outline the new blueprint for its development, but it laid out the new thought of President Xi Jinping as the secretary-general of the CPC. “The Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics is a major theoretical innovation by the CPC in the new era,” Lin remarked. When Xi set forth the basic policy on development, governance, and the military, it became a guiding principle to unite the party and its people. Most importantly, Xi’s thought was written into the CPC’s constitution, which will ensure the longevity of his ideas. Key to the implementation of Xi’s vision will be the new generation of elected leaders which have joined the central committee of the CPC. The congress prioritised discussions on how to build a strong military, transforming the Peoples’ Forces to world-class forces. The CPC seeks to ensure its leadership over the army. Key to discussions was also Xi’s focus on “strictly governing the party”, and how to institutionalise the fight against corruption while maintaining a democratic system. “Xi depicted the fight against corruption as a never-ending struggle,” Lin said. The commitment to punish the "tigers and the flies" indicates a commitment to deal with the corruption of both high and low-ranking party officials. The congress also spoke of building a new type of international relations based on mutual respect in terms of sovereignty and territorial integrity, as well as fairness, justice, and win-win co-operation. What underlies China’s foreign policy is the desire for an open and inclusive world where there is peace and development, as this will ensure a shared future for humankind.