At a height that varies between 80m and 108m, with a width of 1 700m, although not the highest or widest waterfall in the world, it is classified as the largest and it is definitely up there with the most spectacular. Fed by the 2 574km Zambezi river which has its source in Zambia and flows through Angola, along the border of Namibia, Botswana, Zambia, and Zimbabwe to Mozambique, where it finally reaches the sea at the Indian Ocean. The river fills up during the rainy season, November to April, resulting in the strongest flow from February to June, while peaking around April. At its fullest, the spray from the falls can rise more than 400m, producing mesmerising rainbows and even a “moonbow” at night during full moon. During peak season though, it is impossible to see the bottom of the Falls. Walking along the pathways, is difficult through the thick spray, although you can purchase a cheap raincoat at the entrance. During our visit in early November, the falls are at around their lowest, with about a quarter of the full amount of water flowing over the top, all toward the Zimbabwean side of the falls But it is a great time to visit, enabling people to meander along the 3km pathway from the entrance to the exit, which takes you to several lookout points offering great photographic and video opportunities. After a short walk. visitors encounter the famous statue of David Livingstone before reaching the thundering falls. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  At this time of the year, the first part of the falls is where the action is. There you progress through a rain forest created by the constant spray, while all the time veering back to the viewing points. In the rainforest itself, you’ll think you have been transported to a tropical wonderland, with amazing vegetation and, at this time of the year, hundreds of the most beautiful crimson “fireball” lilies. Once out of the rainforest, the dry gorge with huge cliffs and spectacular views will leave you breathless on the way to the last viewing point, which looks out on to the Victoria Falls Bridge, linking Zimbabwe and Zambia by road and rail at the border. The flight to Vic Falls was courtesy of Fastjet, aboard a 50-seater Embraer E145. The inside of the plane has one row of single seats, an aisle, then a row of double seats. With the plane not fully occupied, we could sit where we liked. The usual drinks and light snacks are offered on board, but make sure you have cash and small change because, like throughout Zimbabwe, small denominations of dollars are difficult to find. Fastjet accepts both rands and American dollars. The flight is approximately one-and-a-half hours before landing at the recently revamped and very modern Victoria Falls International Airport. Our transfers to and from the airport and also to other destinations were done by Love For Africa in an air-conditioned minibus. Our driver had an encyclopaedic knowledge when we got to the falls and also out on other excursions in the surrounding areas. It was a short 25-minute drive to our accommodation, the absolutely stunning Victoria Falls Safari Lodge. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  The lodge is situated about 4km from Vic Falls and is located in the heart of the African bush. It is built on a small hill overlooking a large waterhole where visitors can observe all kinds of wild animals and bird life from the lodge’s dining area balconies, or from a hide next to the lodge. Just past reception is the MaKuwa-Kuwa restaurant, the Buffalo Bar and a two-tiered swimming pool where you can eat, drink or just laze around watching the most picturesque of African sunsets. The restaurant offers a buffet or “a la carte” breakfast along with an “a la carte” lunch and dinner. All the rooms at the lodge have private balconies (a waterhole view), a king-size bed, a very spacious shower, air-conditioning, a safe and a mini-bar. Also part of the precinct is the Victoria Falls Safari Club, which is a more exclusive living experience. These units feature a combination of luxurious rooms and suites. The Club is currently under expansion and will eventually include a private swimming pool with spa facilities. Another option available are the Victoria Falls Safari Suites, which are directed at families travelling with children - or maybe grandparents - or for a group of friends on holiday together. These units feature inter-linking rooms. Another option is the Lokuthula Lodge, which features luxury self-catering free-standing units. These are ideal for groups of people travelling together, especially on self-drive tours or for those looking to cater for themselves. Also on the property, is the Boma restaurant, where visitors will be dressed in a sarong on arrival and then treated to traditional singing, dancing and drumming. Be prepared for an unforgettable dining experience where - apart from the usual cuts of meat and many different salads, veggies and desserts - you can feast on some delectable game meat and don’t forget to get your certificate for eating a mopani worm The lodge also has its own vulture care programme. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  Every day at lunch-time, meat titbits are provided for the more than 100 birds that glide overhead and have gathered, in waiting, on nearby trees. As soon as a worker has finished laying out the meat and moved away the birds swoop in, fighting among themselves for every last scrap. The event provides a truly amazing spectacle and lends a hand in preserving some of the birds on the endangered species list. Organised by Take Note reputation management and Africa Albida Tourism, your stay at the lodge will be unforgettable. Victoria Falls offers a whole host of activities and it doesn’t matter whether you want a relaxing day or evening, or if you are an adrenaline junkie, there is something for everyone. Bushtracks Africa offers many outings and it was with them that we shared the Bushtracks Express. The train leaves from the Victoria Falls Hotel, but make sure you get there early so you can peruse the hotel itself, which is full of old English charm and custom. This trip will take you way back in time and the few kilometres journey to the Victoria Falls Bridge is something to savour. The train comprises three carriages: a dining car, a kitchen car, and an observation car with a steam locomotive. You can treat yourself to a five-course dinner, or enjoy some drinks and canapes in the observation car. The train stops in no-mans land on the bridge between Zimbabwe and Zambia where you will have 20 minutes to take pictures and videos of some of the best scenery available. The bridge also plays host to bungee jumping during the day. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  The Bushtracks sunset river safari is also a must. Climb aboard and relax with drinks and snacks while observing the wildlife along the shore. Watch hippos and elephants frolic in the waters of the Zambezi while you head toward the falls. There are many boats on the river in the late afternoon, but the Bushtracks boats are the only ones that can head into the shallower water just before the falls. On the way back, visitors can experience some of the most beautiful sunsets and, with the islands along the river populated with palm trees, it offers a fantastic photographic opportunity. If you’re an adrenaline seeker, then get in touch with Wild Horizons, which offers a nail-biting gorge swing and the Flying Fox cable slide. For the swing, you leap off the edge of the gorge and free fall for about 70m before going into a 95m long pendulum type swing. Or you can try the longest zip line ride in the world. Feel the adrenalin pump as you fly through the air at a speed of more than 100km/* for 400m across the gorge while suspended 120m above the Zambezi. These activities will get your blood pumping and are guaranteed to leave you breathless. Besides all of the above, there is so much more to keep you entertained. Ask about swimming in the “devil’s pool” situated right at the edge of the Falls if you can get to the Zambia side. Also try the white water rafting and tubing, horseback and elephant rides or a helicopter flip over the falls, among many other activities. Victoria Falls is an experience of a lifetime and will leave any visitor with wonderful memories for the rest of their life.