The trainees were recruited by the former ANC-led administration as part of an initiative to make the city safer by deploying at least 10 officers in each municipal ward. Their contracts were terminated after they failed their exams in 2013, but they were subsequently given a second chance to write - and at least 186 of the 207 passed. Kissoonduth - also MMC for community safety - said the recruits would soon be absorbed as permanent security guards. “The process to take them in is at a final stage. The City had to create new salary scales for them. We are talking about millions; their uniforms and equipment. We can’t pay them as the metro police,” he said. He said they couldn't be employed as metro police, because they were not fully-fledged metro police officers. “They attended training and failed. They were then given a second chance to finish their training, but did not finish other parts of the training,” Kissoonduth said. The trainees have repeatedly expressed their disappointment that they were left out in the cold by the City despite the fact that they obtained traffic diplomas. Three of them, who spoke to the Pretoria News on Tuesday, said they had been forced to stay at home upon completion of their training in November last year. Among them is Prayer Green, who said the recruits were frustrated after the City tossed them from pillar to post whenever they wanted to know about their chances of being employed as metro police officers. Green bemoaned the fact that his life was put on hold despite the fact that he has a diploma. “The situation is affecting me in terms of getting employment. I can’t get employment at other traffic institutions. These diplomas are holding all of us back. “Last Saturday, mayor Solly Msimanga, city manager (Dr Moeketsi Mosola) and the MMC for community safety (Kissoonduth) had a community imbizo in Hammanskraal. About eight parents asked them what they would do with us,” he said. He said the trainees underwent the metro police training between 2014 and November 2016. His fellow trainee, Clement Matlhare, said he was worried that he couldn't get employment anywhere else because age was not on his side. “When we apply somewhere else we are told to go back to where we had trained as metro police officers,” he said. Another, Albert Lamola, said: “Our women have left us because we can’t provide for them anymore.” But Kissoonduth said the City didn't budget for the creation of new posts of security guards, but had to find money for them. He said the City was trying to avoid a situation whereby it would fail to pay for their salaries some months after they had been hired. “I must make it very clear that they are not qualified as metro police. “They failed and volunteered to complete their training. They are not fully-fledged metro police,” he said. In July, the recruits demonstrated outside Tshwane House, saying Msimanga had “lied” to them during last year's municipal election campaigns when he was canvassing for their votes. According to them, Msimanga gave them false hopes of jobs when he was canvassing for their votes. They said they still vividly remembered the day they met with him at Burgers Park, where he promised them jobs. They also claimed the City had promised to employ them on August 1, but Kissoonduth said it was not true. “I haven’t given them a date. We have agreed in principle that we will absorb them. We have concluded all the necessary processes. The decision of taking them in has been done and the mayor and the city manager are committed to that,” he said. Pretoria News