Naison Chirapura elected to buy his second-hand car through a reputable dealer and soon regretted it. Now, he wants to cancel the deal. Chirapura, a first-time buyer, found his dream car, a 2013 Audi A3 TFSI S 3DR, at Williams Hunt in Fourways and took it home on Friday, September 29, 2017. The following day, he excitedly went through the user’s manual and noticed problems: The boot would only open with a remote and the speakers were torn. Those were the least of his problems. That Sunday, October 1, the engine cut out on the highway. “My girlfriend and I had decided to take the car to church and on our way there, I noticed the car vibrating when I stopped at traffic lights and that the turbo was struggling to kick in after acceleration. In addition to this, the engine light would start flashing on the dashboard and the EPC (electronic power control) light was on all the time even when the car was in motion. Furthermore the back shocks were making a noise when the car was moving,” he says. He managed to get to church, but on his way home, the car had no power and lost the turbo. “It would cut off at traffic lights and intersections. The engine light again started flashing and the EPC light was still on, the car was struggling to accelerate and climb up hills and, if put into third gear, it would cut out, forcing me to move into second gear. Also, the automatic start and stop function was not working and the car itself  said the function was not operating.” The following business day, he notified Williams Hunt and Wesbank that he wanted to cancel the deal. He asked the dealer to replace his car with another A3. Williams Hunt refused, only offering a repair. No papers Oddly, he’s still waiting for the roadworthiness certificate, a service book, or proper diagnostic reports that should have been conducted before it was sold in an “excellent running condition” to him. What he has been provided with is a questionable used-car report, which notes a different mileage, does not detail when it was conducted, by whom or any other vital information. Dealer principal Earle Austin told me: “We view the statements from our customer as below extremely serious. As such, I would like to propose a meeting between yourself and all the relevant parties Kindly note the following: (The) customer’s vehicle was attended to by Audi and under the Audi warranty. We supplied a courtesy vehicle for the customer while his vehicle was being attended to by Audi. All faults have been attended and repaired as per our legal obligation. While we fully understand and sympathise with the inconvenience and frustration the customer experienced, it was unforeseen and attended to as soon as we could in a fashion that would be expected.” But Chirapura is not taking their word for it - he still has the car, but no paperwork or proof the repairs were in fact done. The G2 114-point check and preparation schedule notes the coil pack and the boot switch were replaced, and some minor chips and scratches repaired. But the mileage does not add up and the shocks are still “out”, even though it was ticked as fixed. “Wesbank told me I must sort it out with Williams Hunt, even though the bank is the owner of the car until it’s paid off. They’re not helping the customer. Williams Hunt says I must sort it out with Wesbank or take it to the ombudsman, which will take many months to resolve.” Noose around his neck Chirapura says he has lost trust in the brand, their cars and the way the matter was handled. “To Williams Hunt, this is just another sale; to me, it’s a 73-month burden which could possibly cost me my life or a life of someone I am close to. Seventy-three months is a very, very long time and no consumer should carry the burden of paying for a product they are not satisfied with, comfortable with and will not be able to make use of for more than half the duration of the said instalment period. This car put the lives of two people at risk because of the negligence of (the Williams Hunt) team.” And even if the coil pack was the only mechanical issue, the dealership has not addressed the lack of paperwork for the car. He told Williams Hunt he wouldn’t take the car back unless it was replaced, which is when they took back the courtesy car and “forced” the Audi back on him. He also asked for an independent assessment, which they declined. “If proper and accurate diagnostics, checks and services were done by Audi Fourways and G2 certified prior to selling the car, as stated by GM Williams Hunt Fourways, the above-mentioned issues would have been solved,” he said. It’s a poor reflection on Williams Hunt, which notes on its website: “Great service and reliable products remain our top priority. Our commitment is to do whatever it takes to meet and exceed your 
expectations.“ A deal breaker? Does Chirapura have grounds to cancel the deal with Wesbank and Williams Hunt? I asked dispute resolution team director at Norton Rose Fulbright South Africa Inc, Riccardo Petersen, a National Credit Act specialist. He believes the NCA and the Consumer Protection Act offer Chirapura protection. “Section 55 and 56 of the CPA give consumers an implied warranty of quality. The customer needs to tell them that he’s exercising his rights by invoking the provisions of section 56 of the CPA and they either have to repair, replace or refund. “Section 127 of the NCA allows you to surrender goods and terminate the agreement. There will be some costs associated, though, in terms of lost value. If there was misrepresentation by the dealership, the financier should sort it out. It also depends on the contract - what it says in terms of quality. “Section 128 of the NCA also says a consumer who has unsuccessfully attempted to resolve the issue may apply to the National Consumer Tribunal. He needs to give written notice to terminate as soon as possible and within five days return the car to the dealership. Ask the financier: Where do you want me to deliver this?” Wesbank has refused to cancel the deal. Chirapura says they threatened to hand him over to debt collectors if he failed to pay his instalments, as per the terms and conditions of the contract. I asked Wesbank about it, but they failed to meet repeated deadlines. They did, however, promise an investigation. Every new or used vehicle sold in South Africa must pass a roadworthiness test before it can be registered and licensed in the new owner’s name. The AA says an estimated 539 854 vehicles on our roads are unroadworthy. With no paperwork or service history, Chirapura is left in a precarious position: The bank won’t cancel the deal, the dealership won’t replace it and both encouraged him to go to the ombudsman. And he can’t drive it - or sell it.