NTANDO MAKHUBU The City has announced service delivery disruptions as a result of the taxi strike currently ongoing in Pretoria, saying A Re Yeng bus operation, among others, has been suspended because of blockades along the shared routes in Mamelodi. There have been delays of Tshwane Bus Services in Pretoria North due to some drivers not being able to make it to bus depot, spokesperson Lindela Mashigo said, and customer care service staff were also in short supply due to their inability to arrive for work. "The customer care centres might be operating with limited personnel," he said, asking that customers be aware of the likelihood of an increase in abandoned calls as well as prolonged holding time when calling. Mashigo also said city residents should anticipate a delayed turn-around time in response to service disruptions, saying they could use alternative avenues to lodge service delivery complaints/ queries. Among the alternative avenues provided are: for general queries the email address customercare@tshwane.gov.za, reporting potholes can be emailed to potholes@tshwane.gov.za, and in the event anyone wanted to report faulty traffic lights, they can send an email to trafficsignalfaults@tshwane.gov.za. Water leakes can be reported to Waterleaks@tshwane.gov.za, while enquiries related to water quality must be sent to drinkingwater@tshwane.gov.za, the City has said. "Meter readings can be emailed to meterrecords@tshwane.gov.za, and for billing periods, please visit www.tshwane.gov.za
"SMS the word "power" followed by your account number to 082 612 0333 or 44676 or visit www.tshwane.gov.za and follow the Report Power Failure link." For account statements, lodging a complaint or query and making payments to the City of Tshwane can be made electronically on www.tshwane.gov.za, and residents can click on the e-Tshwane link and follow the instructions. "We sincerely apologise for any communication delays, challenges and/ barriers that may be experienced by customers when communicating with the City. Mashigo added that metro police officers and other law enforcement agencies were ready to deal with the protest action, and they had been deployed to all areas that could possibly be affected.
"Any unlawful activity will not be tolerated and will be dealt with accordingly," he said