HARARE was one big party last night as Zimbabweans filled the streets of the capital to celebrate the end of Robert Mugabe’s 37-year reign as president. “We are free at last; Mugabe has fallen,” screamed a young man draped in a Zimbabwe flag. He was part of the multitudes that had no plan on sleeping last night. The crowd had been dancing since the impromptu adjournment of a joint sitting of the Senate and National Assembly by Speaker of the Zimbabwe Parliament, Jacob Mudenda, to announce that Mugabe had resigned. The news triggered wild celebrations in the House and on the streets, with hooters blaring, car radios at full blast and strangers hugging and dancing with each other in a spontaneous outbreak of joy. The atmosphere in Harare was electric and one of unparalleled joy. Most Zimbabweans believed that the end of Mugabe would bring about a new dawn for the country, once the bread basket of Africa. “I don’t care who replaces him. It is impossible that anyone can do a worse job than this man,” said Munyaradzi Denhera as he joined in the celebrations. Father of one Musa Masango, 33, said he never thought this day would come. “I was a kid, became a man, got married and had a son but have only known one president in my whole lifetime. This is exciting new ground for me,” he said. Emmerson Mnangagwa, who has been in self-imposed exile in South Africa since being fired by Mugabe on November 6, is expected to return home as the front-runner to replace Mugabe. It remains to be seen how the country will navigate the rigid constitutional process to install him as president. This, however, was very much a secondary thought for Zimbabweans. “We will think about the next president tomorrow; today it’s our time to celebrate,” said Masango. In South Africa, home to several million Zimbabweans who had fled the oppression and economic hardship, the outpouring of joy was equally intense. Shelton Chiyangwa, a 34-year-old who was born in Harare but moved to South Africa in 2005 and currently lives and works in Port Elizabeth, said: “I am feeling so excited. If you had to see me a few minutes ago, I was actually crying. I burst into tears; these were tears of joy, tears of shock and tears of excitement. “The president I have known for my entire life has finally decided to step down. “I was born when Mugabe was in power, I grew up when Mugabe was in power and then I joined politics fighting the system that he had put into place. “As I tuned into the TV, I saw that he had resigned. I am feeling so excited. The feelings that I have right now, the joy and excitement is the same as all the Zimbabweans who are scattered across the diaspora here in South Africa and across the world. “We were pushed by circumstances and hardships in Zimbabwe to find refuge in South Africa and other countries.” Chiyangwa added: “People are excited, people back home are excited because we are free at last. It’s a huge stepping stone towards a new Zimbabwe that we have all been fighting and wishing for. “This means the future looks bright, after 37 years of misery, hardship and a future that was bleak. Finally God decided to answer our prayers.” Chiyangwa said the the institutions that Mugabe put in place were more deadly than Mugabe himself . He called for free and fair elections for everyone so that the people of Zimbabwe could choose their desired 
government. A Zimbabwean woman who has been in Cape Town for 11 years quipped: I am packing my bags for home tonight!” See Page 4