Ndwandwe, who is apparently Zimbabwean, was found to have faked his South African ID following investigations by the department into the legality of his national status. “It is just a pity that we find ourselves in a situation whereby you will find some politicians using the Home Affairs,” Ndwandwe told the Pretoria News yesterday. However, he refused to unmask the identities of the politicians, saying he would not do this at this stage. The department’s investigation showed that he fabricated his ID in 2004, and when he faced the possibility of being deported to his home country he lodged an appeal. Home Affairs director-general Mkuseli Apleni has since revealed that the appeal was unsuccessful. He informed Ndwandwe’s lawyers about the decision to reject the appeal in a letter dated November 15. Part of the letter reads: “I wish to inform you that after consideration of your client’s representations, I have decided to reject your client’s request for the following reasons: In 2004 he obtained the South African identity fraudulently.” Apleni also said Ndwandwe had failed to surrender his fraudulently obtained document, and to use the opportunity to legalise his status in the country through the amnesty granted in the Zimbabwean Special Dispensation that took place in 2010. “To date, he continued to misrepresent himself to sojourn and depart from the Republic as a citizen using a fraudulently acquired South African passport. He also submitted a fabricated school letter in support of his claim for South African citizenship,” Apleni further wrote. According to Apleni, Ndwandwe should leave the country within 14 days from date of receipt of the letter. Department spokesperson Thabo Mokgola said Ndwandwe was still in the country “because he is awaiting an appeal process to unfold”. He said Ndwandwe would not be allowed to be in the country without any documentation after the 14 days had lapsed. Ndwandwe was suspended by the workers’ union two weeks ago pending an internal probe to establish the truth regarding his alleged fraudulent activities. The controversy surrounding his legality in the country emerged three months after the national union’s general secretary Zenzo Mahlangu was deported to Zimbabwe for being in the country without the necessary permits. Ndwandwe, who was elected as Satawu secretary in 2015, used to work as Mahlangu’s bodyguard and head of union security. He was elected into the position following the cold-blooded killing of former secretary Chris Nkosi, who was gunned down in Ekurhuleni. Pretoria News