Though Christmas is a month away, the sound and melodies the group of artists and the choir put together at the Atterbury Theatre made witnesses feel as if it was Christmas Day already. Pianist and music director Matthys Maree told the Pretoria News that preparations for an event like Carols by Candlelight was different from events where people sang their own music. “With this event, it is more of the commonality of people sharing a similar view, purpose and passion for Christmas and for people who supported them throughout the year,” he said. Different as the preparations were from other events, Maree said they were ready since they all knew the music and it was just about giving positive energy, singing and contributing to the day. He said the Pretoria team was certainly ready for the event, especially with the choir bringing magic. Ghoema award winner, 20-year-old Refentse Morake, said it would be the first time he would perform at the event, but he was extremely excited to share the stage with other great and talented artists. Asked what people should expect, he said he did not know, but he knew it was going to be fun. However, unlike Morake who was not sure what to expect, the Mzansi Youth Choir promised a good time and said it was a definite must that people attend the event. Choir member Sibusiso Mbele said: “Judging by the energy and great music being brewed here, you can sure expect an awesome show.” The event, presented by Jacaranda FM and Spar, aims to get families, couples and friends all hyped up for the festive season. The event will take place in both Pretoria and Johannesburg. In Pretoria the event will take place at Loftus Versfeld on December 5 and artists include the likes of Charlize Berg, Elvis Blue, Jo Black, Juanita du Plessis, Karen Zoid, Refentse Morake, Joe Niemand and the Mzansi Youth Choir. Doors open at 4pm and the event starts at 7pm up until 9pm. Those attending the event have been asked to bring a toy which will be given to charities after the event. In Joburg the event would take place at St Stithians College on December 2 with the line-up including Lloyd Cele, Louise Carver, Brendan Ross, Danny K and Majozi. 