Outa head Wayne Duvenage said MultiChoice would have to make the decision soon as the news agency’s contract was coming up for renewal in June next year. Duvenage recently penned an open letter to MultiChoice chief executive Mark Rayner calling for the pay TV market leader to “do the right thing” and heed the call by civil society to stop broadcasting the Gupta-founded news channel ANN7. In his letter, Duvenage said that the recent actions by banking institutions and the Johannesburg Stock Exchange to cease doing business with Gupta-owned companies was sufficient for DSTV to review its “business as usual” stance with ANN7. City Press reported that MultiChoice executives and various advisers already decided against renewing the contract. City Press reported that the decision was driven by concerns over the reputational damage the Gupta-founded news channel was causing the MultiChoice brand. Other reasons, it stated, included ethical considerations that the channel was biased and promoting a factional agenda in which individuals were being targeted for attack - as well as commercial considerations and concerns about production quality. Gugu Masinga, marketing manager for ANN7, said the commercial relationship between Infinity Media and DStv is private and confidential. “Suffice to say, at the appropriate time next year Infinity Media would engage DStv on the renewal of the contract,” Msinga said. MultiChoice responded yesterday. “We have a legally binding channel carriage contract for the ANN7 channel. We cannot comment on the terms of the contract (including the duration of the agreement) as it is subject to confidentiality clauses. “We have not been approached by the owners of ANN7 for the renewal of the contract and we are not in negotiations for the renewal of that contract.” MultiChoice said it was unable to cancel a contract prior to its expiry unless there was a clear breach of that contract. “As we have stated previously, DStv is a platform that relays many local and international news channels, representing a wide spectrum of views (eg SABC News, eNCA, ANN7, CNN, Sky News and many others). We don’t have editorial control or any involvement in running the operations of any of these news channels, including ANN7,” the statement read. On Twitter, advocacy group for press freedom Right2Know said that the call to take ANN7 off the airwaves was wrong. “Whatever your views on the company, the people of SA should be empowered and trusted to choose our sources of news. No media corporation should enjoy special support of the state, as ANN7 and The New Age seem to” the tweet read. But Duvenage told Independent Media that their stance had “nothing to do with press freedom”. “We understand where Right2Know is coming from as this does skate close to media freedom but these news agencies propped up through taxpayers' money,” Duvenage said. He said that the ANN7 and The New Age organisations' conduct and ability to survive were questionable as their news was “significantly skewed and biased”. “And it’s in favour of the same people mentioned in state capture.” He believes MultiChoice’s business model is threatened as subscribers said they would boycott their services should ANN7 continue its broadcast via the group.