The chiefs have been invited to spend a few days at the park this week, where they are being given an opportunity to see, at close proximity, the damage inflicted on wildlife, along with wildlife conservation efforts. Yesterday Kruger management executive, Glenn Phillips, told them poaching has hurt the Kruger National Park financially, as the security budget has skyrocketed from R50million to R250million between 2011 and today. He said the park’s environmental crimes investigation de- partment was working hard to remove corrupt staff who were secretly feeding information to the syndicates. More needed to be done to change the way security was provided because at times, rangers crossed paths with armed poachers three times in just 24 hours. “This has resulted in a situation whereby our rangers have been charged with murder for shooting poachers. “Their firearms are confiscated, and then we also need to spend money to defend them." He said the park was worried that rangers could start wondering why they were doing the job they did, because they were being charged for trying to protect the wild animals from those determined to hurt them. Kruger National Park had increased staff numbers in a bid to curb the poaching, but the numbers, they said, were small compared to the required number. And this was because the park was the size of Israel - a country that had more than one million people. The park has also recently developed a good relationship with the police, who have deployed specialised forensic investigators and other specialised units to help combat the scourge. As a result there have been excellent investigations and good convictions, and more than 120 arrests have been made this year, and with each arrest, firearms were 
confiscated. However, park management said they were far from winning the battle against rhino poaching: “The battle is far from over,” they all agreed. The leaders of local traditional households and villages have pledged their support, with Chief Mothiba Mokoena saying: “Let’s have regular meetings between the park and us royal leaders. “Let’s also identify the market for these horns because if we do that we will be able to eliminate the problem.” The park has spent  its R250million security budget to maintain its four helicopters, all ranger vehicles, security technology and salaries. Head Ranger Ken Maggs said: “There are now also cash-in-
transit criminals involved in poaching because it is a smaller risk to take. It is clear we have to constantly be on the alert to win the battle.” He said the park also had a lawyer on retainer, and that legal person was flown to poaching crime scenes after every arrest, and so far, legal fees cost the park at least R1million a year. To show progress against poaching, the park presented reports to Parliament quarterly, and, 
Phillips added, the president had also shown interest and visited the park a couple of times.