When he heard I was unavailable, the caller started shouting down the line about my research on farm attacks. “Murderers!” he screamed. “Murderers!” Last Saturday AfriForum, an NGO which seeks to protect “the rights of minorities” with “a specific focus on the rights of Afrikaners”, planned to march to the Union Buildings. It planned to deliver a memorandum about farm murders and attacks in South Africa to the president. Last month, thousands of protesters gathered around the country in a similar protest called “#BlackMonday”. Deputy CEOof AfriForum, Ernst Roets, claims that “farmers are tortured to death on farms in unusual ratios”. The “ratio” that he refers to is the farmer murder rate, presented as the number of farmers murdered per 100000 in South Africa. I have seen a number of farm murder rates during my time at Africa Check. There was the 133 per 100000 cited by the Freedom Front Plus’s Pieter Groenewald. The African Christian Democratic Party’s Steve Swart and the Institute for Security Studies’ Johan Burger pegged it lower, at 97 per 100000. AfriForum added a new farmer murder rate last month. Its new rate of 156 commercial farmers being murdered out of every 100000 in the country was reported by Times LIVE. The news story claimed that “commercial farmers are 4.5 times as likely to get murdered as the South African population as a whole”. In May, I spoke to numerous crime experts, the SAPS and trade unions to determine if any farm murder rate was accurate. The conclusion? The numbers being circulated are flawed and we don’t have enough data to calculate an accurate estimate. At the moment calculating a farmer murder rate is “near impossible”. This is because there are numerous problems with the data. One: farm murders are probably undercounted, experts say. Two: we don’t know exactly how many farmers there are in South Africa and therefore we can’t calculate the rate. That farmers are victims of violent attacks is not in question. What is in doubt is their risk in relation to the average South African. So my first reaction when I saw AfriForum’s new commercial farmer murder rate was curiosity. “How was it calculated?” I thought. “Do they have access to new data?” I e-mailed Roets. Curiosity turned to dismay when he responded. He told me that their new statistic “is the same calculation that was already dealt with on Africa Check (sic), but calculated for the year 2016”. In other words, they’ve distributed a statistic that they know has been calculated in a flawed manner. Roets did not respond to further questions on the calculation of the figure. If I had been in the office to take that angry call on Monday I would have said the following: I have great sympathy for the dangers people in rural areas encounter. I know too well the fear that these communities face. I grew up on a farm in Northern KwaZulu-Natal. I know people who have been brutally tortured in farm attacks. In one case, a family friend had the soles of his feet boiled off. He is always in my thoughts when I work on this topic. It’s an image you cannot erase from your mind. Saying that accuracy and statistical honesty are important is not the same as saying that  farm attacks aren’t horrific. My question is: does AfriForum care about getting farm murder statistics right? Because at the moment it is being dishonest. It is knowingly sharing numbers that have been calculated with a flawed methodology. It has admitted as much. Africa Check has meticulously collected and published the available farm murder and attack research, but as with any topic we research, we don’t have the monopoly on it. Our aim is to enable accurate and informed debate - and advocacy - on the topic. The best publically available data is easy to access and understand in our fact sheet. We explain what the research can and can’t tell you in my analysis. If AfriForum truly cares about its cause, it should care about getting the statistics right. It needs to be honest with numbers. It needs to be honest with the public. *  Wilkinson is a senior researcher at Africa Check, a non-partisan fact-checking organisation. This article is republished with permission. For more go to africacheck.org; for the podcast of the interview with Bongani Bingwa go to 702.co.za