Brown also warned Parliament against turning the inquiry into state capture into a “kangaroo court” by not giving them an opportunity to respond to allegations against them of state capture. Brown’s statement came after Eskom spokesperson Khulani Qoma accused her of lying. Deputy Minister of Public Enterprises Ben Martins joined Brown in condemning the inquiry and said it was unfair. But the portfolio committee on public enterprises said it would provide all implicated parties an opportunity to respond to the allegations against them. Martins said he was also speaking on behalf of his boss, Brown. Brown said Parliament must give them an opportunity to respond. She said Parliament must “level the playing fields” by giving all sides the platform to respond to the allegations. “By failing to subscribe to fundamental constitutional principles such as affording people the right to reply - or to distinguish between hearsay and factual evidence - the inquiry takes the form of a kangaroo court intent on reaching predetermined outcomes,” said Brown. “In conclusion, let me state unequivocally, that I do not take instructions from anybody,” she said. “If truth be told, Eskom officials intentionally misled me on the Trillian matter and the acting chairperson (Zethembe Khoza) has assured me that those responsible will be charged by the company,” said Brown. This came after Qoma accused Brown of lying and the continued woes at the power utility company. Qoma’s attack on Brown came a day after Eskom admitted it was broke and needed billions of rand to get out of financial trouble. Eskom said it had R1.2 billion left in its reserves after it used up the R20bn. Martins said the inquiry had not given them an opportunity to respond to the allegations made by several witnesses. He also denied he was with the Guptas, Duduzane Zuma and Salim Essa in July in Melrose Arch. This was after suspended legal head at Eskom, Suzanne Daniels, said Martins was at the meeting. Martins said he attended the funeral service of late government spokesperson Ronnie Mamoepa in Pretoria before he went to the national executive committee lekgotla later that day. In his testimony in Parliament Qoma said Brown has been lying all the time and Khoza once told him the minister was captured by the Guptas. He has  accused Brown of lying about everything. Politics Hub