JAMES MAHLOKWANE
james.mahokwane@inl.co.za People who were enslaved in the 17th and 18th century should not be forgotten and their emancipation ought to be remembered, said Freedom Park senior researcher Thembeka Ngcebetsha. Ngcebetsha spoke as the park commemorated Slavery Day with Mahatma Ghandi's granddaughter, Ela Ghandhi. She said the park decided to celebrate the emancipation of slaves because in South Africa, in 1834, December 1, slaves were freed and they celebrated from the eve of November 30 until the following morning. She said: "This is why we celebrated their freedom and struggle. We first wanted to show our guests the Wall of Slavery so they could see some of our ancestors who were enslaved and sold like they were property," She said the people of Cape Town still remembered the struggles of their ancestors who were enslaved to the British by holding annual celebrations between November 30 and December 1 at the Cape Carnival. She said the celebration was inspired by those slaves who used the eve of November 30 to celebrate their freedom with a feast and storytelling about slavery experiences. Ela Ghandhi laid a wreath near the Wall of Slaves witnessed by all guests and stakeholders. She said: "Slavery still exists but in a different form. Slavery as a word is gone but the oppression of people continues to be prevalent. That is why it is important to remind people about the suffering of the people of the past. It is important history they need to know because our history helps us know who we are so we could move forward." She said a businessman who exploited his workers needed to be conscious of it  just as much as children needed to be educated about the negative impact of slavery. Gandhi said the enslaving of migrants in Libya was wrong and it was for that reason she believed conscientisation was important in the battle against slavery. The situation in Libya has since compelled French President Emmanuel Macron to announce that the European Union and African Union were planning to launch concrete military and policing action to rescue those enslaved migrants and arrest human traffickers. The EU pledged €44 billion to address the migrant slaves trade in Libya that has caused global outrage as migrants were reportedly sold like goats. Numerous neighbouring countries began providing safe heavens to the migrants who were exploited in a country where they hoped to find better living standards. Freedom Park Chief Executive, Jane Mufamadi, said although slavery was bad, the celebration of the emancipation of slaves was not a sad event but a proud one She said so many slaves were sold like property and given new names, irrespective of the fact that they already had their own identities. Yesterday the park displayed quotes by former slaves and abolitionists inside the museum for everyone to read. One quote by Anna Harris read: "They sold my sister Kate. I saw with these here eyes.  Sold here in 1860 and I aint seen nor heard of her since,"