You can now be a part of a patriotic initiative and help the beauty queen fly the flag high by voting for her to be the next Miss Universe. The pageant, which sees representatives from across the globe vying for the crown, will take place in the US on Sunday. Nel-Peters, a BCom graduate who hails from Sedgefield in the Western Cape, arrived in Las Vegas for the competition last week. She told Independent Media previously that preparations for the pageant had begun soon after she had won the national title. This included working with pageant coach and fashion stylist Werner Wessels as well as Miss South Africa stylist, Noreen Kajee-Vareta. Now that Nel-Peters has laid the foundation, she needs fellow South Africans to take her all the way to the top. They can do so by voting for the 22-year-old in two ways. They can do so ahead of the competition by visiting Vote.MissUniverse.com. Each person can vote up to 10 times a day. They can also do so before she takes to the stage this weekend by voting on Twitter using both #MissUniverse #SouthAfrica. Retweeting also counts as a vote. Voting can also take place during the live broadcast on Sunday, for each round of the competition. “The voting windows will happen during the actual competition so fans need to be ready to cast their ballot,” Nel-Peters' representatives said. Voting during the live broadcasts takes place in the same way as it does ahead of the pageant. This will be the 66th Miss Universe pageant, and the current title-holder is the radiant Iris Mittenaere from France. A South African last won the Miss Universe pageant back in 1978 when Margaret Gardiner walked away with the title. Other Miss South Africas who triumphed on the international stage were Penny Coelen, who was crowned the country’s first Miss World in 1958; Anneline Kriel, who took over the title of Miss World in 1974; and more recently Rolene Strauss who was crowned Miss World three years ago. While Nel-Peters was in the US preparing for the pageant, Miss SA 2017 runner-up Adè van Heerden was in China participating in the Miss World pageant. Last weekend, she did the country proud when she made the Top 10 at the contest. The 2017 Miss Universe pageant will be screened live on Vuzu (DStv Channel 116) from 5am (SA time) on Monday. There will be repeats on Tuesday at 8pm as well as next Saturday (December 2) at 3pm.