The report was released yesterday and came amid the 16 days of Activism for no Violence Against Women and Children, which ends on December 10. Today is the sixth day of the campaign, aimed at encouraging society to protect women and children. The report, released by the University of Cape Town, called on people to look into factors affecting children as these also affected the country as a whole.  According to the report, a lot of factors were not taken into consideration when looking at abuse, but they were important for the success of the 16 Days campaign. These factors, the report said, affected children’s development, and the same factors also cost the country billions. “Most of South Africa’s children are surviving, but too many are failing to thrive and achieve their full potential, and this is costing the economy billions in lost human potential,” it said. “Since 1994, child poverty has decreased and children’s survival and access to basic services have improved.  “But these changes are not enough to unlock the full potential of all children, as violence, poverty, hunger and poor education continue to compromise children’s development and life chances with a negative impact on the country’s development.”    Children’s Institute senior researcher Lizette Berry said there were ways the country could assist children to thrive. “Investing in children, and particularly in violence prevention, networks of care, nutrition, education and inclusive services, should drive the next wave of social and economic transformation. This would also boost the gross domestic product and secure a more sustainable future for everyone,” she said. The promotion of caring relationships played a huge role in helping children to thrive, she added. “The extent to which children and adolescents experience responsive care impacts on their self-confidence, motivation and ability to form healthy relationships.  "Yet caregivers’ capacity to provide nurturing care is hampered by violence, poverty, social isolation and depression. “For these reasons, parents and caregivers need family support, parenting programmes, community-based services and practical support such as maternity leave, childcare and social assistance.” Voicing the same sentiments was her fellow director Professor Shanaaz Mathews, who said children needed to be in safe environments. Children’s exposure to abuse, neglect and other forms of violence increased the risk of mental health problems and substance abuse and contributed to an intergenerational cycle of violence, she said. The report emphasised that while looking into the violence and abuse against women and children, the country also needed to look into poverty and inequality, which adversely affected children’s development. The 12th annual report, themed "Survive, Thrive, Transform", focused on the global strategy for women’s, children’s and adolescents’ health. It was also aimed at ending preventable deaths, and to ensure health and well-being in situations faced by children in the country.  