Mugabe made it clear yesterday that he was not going anywhere. He wants to serve out his term which ends next year, and stand for re-election and a further five-year term which would end either with his death or when he was 99. An insider who has information about some of the ongoings between the two sides, confirmed that the negotiations with Mugabe have reached an “impasse”. In other words, there was no clear road ahead for Mugabe to retire and make way for fresh elections for a new president which must happen within 90 days of his death or resignation. And this was more or less what the military seemed to want since its leader, former vice-president Emmerson Mnangagwa, was sacked nearly two weeks ago. But the military is also not looking quite as confident as it was a day ago. It  became increasingly clear yesterday that its presence - mostly junior members of the Zimbabwe National Army, posted around key buildings in central Harare - had weakened and that, for the most part, the citizenry of the city was  going about its normal business. Mugabe’s cavalcade was heard leaving his mansion in northern Harare and there were rumours -likely to be true - that his favourite priest, retired Jesuit, Father Fidelis Mukonori, had been brought in as a negotiator with the military. President Jacob Zuma’s two envoys were also playing a particular role, not only for Pretoria but for the SADC. Father Mukonori, now retired, has been Mugabe’s priest since the 1970s and played a role in the liberation struggle. He is not seen by any political party as neutral. “He is highly partisan. He is Mugabe’s priest, and the military knows that. So while most know and respect him, he is part of the faction which supports Mugabe remaining in power and fighting fresh elections next year when he will be 94,” said an analyst who happens to be close to the Catholic Church in Harare, and did not want to be named. In addition to negotiations, the military, advised by lawyers close to  Mnangagwa, are reminding both sides in the argument, that there is a constitution which took years to conclude during the inclusive government of Zanu-PF and the Movement for Democratic Change (MDC). The charter, lawyers say, has many shortcomings, but it was overwhelmingly supported by voters in a referendum ahead of the 2013 elections. That constitution says that if the president retires before his term ends, or dies in office, the vice-president at the time, would act for  90 days and then there would be fresh presidential elections. So no one is prepared to say at this stage, what would happen if Mugabe quit this week. Would the military support the demands of the constitution for fresh presidential elections in three months? And if they did, would Mnangagwa win? Would he have the support of the opposition Movement for Democratic Change? No one is sure at this stage. The MDC is talking among themselves about the constitution and trying to see whether there is another way of Mugabe leaving office without generating fresh elections within the next 
three months. MDC president Morgan Tsvangirai, looking much better than he has for several months, addressed a packed press conference at his huge home in northern Harare late yesterday. He made it clear neither faction of Zanu-PF had approached him about any matter in connection with the military takeover of Harare two days ago. He has not been asked if he would be prepared to join any future administration. But he said the MDC and its allies in the alliance against Zanu-PF - which is still attracting new participants - wanted Mugabe to quit: “In the interest of the people, Mr Robert Mugabe must resign and step down immediately there should be a negotiated all-inclusive transitional mechanism and there must be a mechanism for free and fair elections.” There were many rumours yesterday that a transitional authority was about to be declared which would include all the country’s main political leaders, excluding Mugabe, but insiders insist that point has not been reached. Several Harare lawyers say the constitution, one way or another, will still have to be accommodated. The murky waters in Harare are getting ever more cloudy. - Independent Foreign Service See Pages 7 and 12