The charge of malicious damage to property is believed to be linked to a car that was allegedly damaged during the commotion. The officers unleashed their weapons on the crowd demonstrating when two farmers accused of assaulting a young girl appeared in court on Tuesday. They had been granted bail at the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, despite the Bronkhorstspruit Magistrate’s Court earlier turning down their application. The crowd demanded an explanation from the prosecution on why and how the suspects got bail. But rubber bullets and stun grenades started flying after the National Prosecuting Authority’s Matric Lupondo failed to explain. EFF sub-regional convener Ganadhla Mabona said: “I was one of the leaders coming from inside court with Lupondo so he could address the community when the police started firing rubber bullets. We were literally 2m away from the crowd. “The police injured a lot of innocent people without being provoked. We have spoken to our legal adviser and we were advised to join those who have already opened cases of assault against the police. We want the Independent Police Investigative Directorate to make sure that those officers account for this.” The crowd was, at the time, claiming that the justice system was unfair and did not punish all the “racist white people” who committed racially motivated crimes in Bronkhorstspruit. They said the town was riddled with racism and had just vented their frustration at magistrate Jacob Tsatsi, who was presiding over the case of Johannes Potgieter, 34, and 48-year-old Hendricks Dumas. The two face charges of assault, attempted murder, kidnapping and pointing a firearm. They are accused of tying the 9-year-old girl to a tree after she and three others wandered onto their farm while walking their dogs. While the others escaped, the farmers allegedly captured the victim, tied her to a tree and punched her, before shooting a rifle in her direction to scare her. As soon as Tsatsi agreed to a postponement of the case, the men ran from the packed court. In the ensuing chaos, the victim’s mother was shot twice in the hip and hospitalised. A family spokesperson, who could not be named, said she (the mother) sustained injuries to the hip and "I was shot on the hand because I was with her". “I sustained a more open wound and I can tell you now, these things hurt. We have opened a case against the police and we are waiting for a case number to be sent to us.” Local ANC leader Jabu Mabona said: “The police arrested innocent young people who didn’t even know what was happening there. The police are basically going to punish innocent people who were just passing in the streets.” SAPS spokesperson Constable Nyadziwa Phungwa said they had yet to establish the total number of people who opened cases against the police, but confirmed there were two dockets with numerous complainants. She said: “I cannot tell you if the police said they were provoked or not because this was now a case against the police and I would be revealing information from an open case. All I can tell you is that there was damage to public property caused by protesters. “The police arrested five suspects for public violence and they appeared in court around 7pm on the same day. Charges were dropped against three of the suspects and two were released on R200 bail. “They appeared again the following morning but their case was postponed to December for further investigations.” Pretoria News