The matter has its roots in the development of the R1.3 billion Mamelodi Regional Mall, and 286 traders have asked the court to intervene after a fence was put up around their trading space, allegedly at the order of the City. In court papers, Lawyers for Human Rights, for the traders, contested that the action was against the court order obtained in February. The order prohibited the erection of the fence before traders could be relocated to an alternative trading space. The traders now want Msimanga to personally account for the turn of events. Also in hot water was the city manager, Dr Moeketsi Mosola, and project head Shadrack Mthethwa. The applicants have asked the court to imprison Msimanga, Mosola and Mthethwa “for 120 days, or such period as determined by the honourable court” for being in contempt of the February court order. The three were among the respondents in the case. Lawyers for Human Rights have proposed that alternatively, a jail sentence could be suspended for one year on condition that within 48 hours of granting the order, respondents comply with the first order by Justice Janse van Niewenhuizen. They wanted the fence to be removed within 48 hours of granting the order that respondents pay each applicant an amount of R5000 as compensation for demolition of their stalls, loss of their stock and violation of their constitutional rights within 14 days. The stalls were demolished by a bulldozer by a company owned by Isibonelo Property Services, the company in charge of the mall development. The demolition was to make way for the expansion of construction at a site where street vendors traded. Mthethwa quashed the allegations that Isibonelo was behind the demolition, saying it was known that taxi drivers ordered a bulldozer and machinery to destroy the stalls. On the fence erection, Mthethwa said in court papers that the City gave a go-ahead for the site to be fenced off following the demolition of buildings. The fence was to secure electrical infrastructure from criminals who could steal power cables, he said. Traders claimed 10 construction workers wearing hard hats and yellow jackets took part in the demolition, but Mthethwa said said these were  community members. According to him, the bulldozer and machinery belonged to a subcontractor responsible for the earthworks and not Isibonelo. The first applicant, informal trader Anna Thipe, said in her affidavit that taxi drivers actively took part in the demolition, and that project manager Nthabiseng Makobe and project manager Anthony Steyn were present and just looked on as stalls were demolished and looted. She said Makobe cited there was an agreement that they should relocate. “The respondents’ actions to demolish our stands and fixed structures despite the court order and erecting a fence severely hamper us in our trade, and have in fact made it impossible for most of us to trade and earn a living,” Thipe said Simon Sithole, the City’s director of litigation management within Group Legal Services, said the demolition didn’t take place with the knowledge of the municipality, the mayor or the municipal manager. “The community expects the mall to be completed and they perceive the stalemate between the City and the traders as the reason why the completion of the mall is delayed,” Sithole said. He said a number of containers had been occupied illegally and a total of 104 out of 220 trading spaces were available at the temporary facility. Sithole said the fence was meant to protect the community from being electrocuted by exposed electrical cables. It was also to prevent vandals from stealing cable copper. “The fence is also necessary to prevent traders from returning to the site because the community has vowed to forcefully remove anyone who returns to the site to trade,” Sithole said. The traders’ legal representative, Louise du Plessis said: “The mayor, city manager and chief executive of Isibonelo and any other person can be summoned. We will ask for an urgent date.” Leader of the traders Mary Choma was arrested last week for malicious damage to property after part of the fence was taken down, according to Du Plessis. “The February court order determined that fence can only be erected after the relocation of the traders. It is one of contempt issues,” she said. Choma, who was subsequently released, will appear at the Mamelodi Magistrate’s Court tomorrow.