This was revealed during the fifth annual disability rights conference, held under the auspices of the University of Pretoria’s Centre for Human Rights at St George Hotel in Pretoria on Tuesday. The conference looked at domesticating the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities in the African region with the focus on access to justice and legal capacity. Dr Samuel Kabue, member of the UN committee on the rights of persons with disabilities, said there were a lot of challenges faced by people with disabilities. He told those gathered that members of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (CRPD) had noted that it was now the second decade since the adoption of the convention yet they still faced serious implementation challenges. He said the biggest challenge was the implementation of the convention by countries that had already signed and ratified it. “There is a general concern regarding the implementation of the national monitoring mechanism. There is no data on the number of complaints nor do we know what remedies are available to persons with disabilities when their rights are violated. “And that means there is an urgent need to facilitate the implementation of the rights of persons with disabilities beyond the mere ratifications in African countries,” he said. Kabue said South Africa was not the worst on the implementation as they had done a bit of good work, however, there was still a long way to go, he said, giving reference to the Life Esidimeni case. And adding on the Life Esidimeni tragedy was Anne-Marie Robb, who said she was convinced the critical and necessary insight needed to establish the underlying factors that contributed to the horrific loss of life of Esidimeni residents would be lost. Robb, a disability rights activist and member of the Pan African network of users and survivors psychiatry, said she knew this as she was involuntarily hospitalised and endured months of stigma in a residential care home. Even so, Kabue hoped the conference would bring greater involvement of civil society in advocating not only for ratification but also the implementation of the convention. “I hope to see more involvement of universities with researches on how to challenge the government to keep to their commitment,” he said. He further said the conference would deliberate on strategies for advocacy for greater reach in terms of implementations for persons with disabilities. The two-day conference ended yesterday.