Moodley yesterday described the book as a “sham”, accusing Pauw of using his name and that of Zuma and the Guptas to pique the interest of South Africans without the ability to prove the claims. Moodley was named in the book, written by investigative journalist Pauw, for allegedly paying Zuma a R1million a month salary during his first few months as president. The book was released about two weeks ago and has been flying off the shelves at bookstores nationwide. “My name is better than Harry Potter’s because it has sold so many books,” Moodley joked with his guests. Pauw did not respond to messages and calls yesterday. Moodley was speaking at the South African National Civics Organisation gala dinner on Saturday night at the Durban ICC. He is the national treasurer of Sanco and the event saw the likes of ANC treasurer-general Zweli Mkhize and Deputy Minister of Cogta Andries Nel among the crowd of more than 500 people. Moodley took to the stage shortly after 10.30pm. He told guests he had been a “popular” man in the past few weeks and has kept silent “as silence is better than gossip”. But once on the podium, Moodley took a firm stance, saying that Pauw’s book was packed with unverified information. Only he (Moodley) could reveal the truth. “The only truth that will prevail is me, Roy Moodley. I will say what happened. I know the truth and it will come out. Watch this space.” He criticised those who purchased the, book saying they were the same people who would pay R300 for a book that is not backed up with evidence but would not give R300 towards a charitable organisation. In a further condescending tone, Moodley said those who bought the book were “much more intelligent than Jacques Pauw” because they believe the media over the president,  who had denied in Parliament that he received the alleged payment. “It is so strange that when the president was asked the question in Parliament by the DA, he said no, but no one believed him. They believed the DA,” Moodley said. Although Zuma denied the allegations, he said, people wanted to hear the names of Roy Moodley, Zuma and the Guptas and so they rushed to buy the book. Moodley claimed that the country was being run by the media. Whatever was published in the media was perceived to be the truth, Moodley said. Instead of focusing on the bigger picture and the balance of the country’s money, the media chose to focus on a “small corner” that included the Guptas, he said. “But now you have state capture and the media is focusing on something that is in the one corner and they don’t worry about the balance. The media is running the country and everyone can focus on what they are saying. “The long and short of it is that whatever you hear you must be able to verify. “That is why I kept myself silent but it won’t be for long. When I talk, I want it to be streamed live because I don’t want it to be edited. Mkhize attended the gala dinner as Moodley’s special guest,. Moodley endorsed Mkhize’s presidential credentials saying that South Africa needed a focused leader who will drive the country in the right direction. The party will decide who will replace  Zuma as president at its elective conference next month. “We don’t want a leader with some sort of background that is not going to focus on the way forward,” Moodley said. Mkhize said the ANC was working “extremely hard” to ensure the conference takes place without disruption. “Many people are asking whether it will take place or not and I can assure you that we are doing everything to ensure that the conference will go ahead. “We must emerge united so that we don’t see some of the worrying things that we have seen happen in some of the conferences like the violence in the Eastern Cape,” Mkhize said. Beyond the conference, Mkhize said, the ANC would have to work hard to move forward without bringing instability to the rest of the country. “We have learnt a hard lesson that we cannot have internal party politics create unease in the country. “It’s a lesson we have learnt and hopefully we will never make that mistake again,” he said.