Selepe came fourth at the World Fitness Federation International World Championships held in Nicosia on the island of Cyprus last week, in the beach model category. Describing the accomplishment as hard work that paid off, he said he prepared like never before to get to that position. “It took three weeks to prepare for the world championships. Through dieting, water drop and cardio training,” he said. “I went there and was placed in fourth position, and that alone meant a lot to me. “To represent my country was great and I learnt a lot, as it was (my) first time representing South Africa at the world championship. “Therefore, I’m humbled and honoured to be chosen to represent my country at an international stage.” The 23-year-old from Cullinan by day works at Cullinan Diamond Mine and is studying safety management part-time through Unisa. Selepe said what threw him off a little was that it was his first competition on an international stage. “It was my first time competing on an international stage. This journey has been a blessing, I never feel like giving up. Instead, I want more because I want to come back bigger and  better.” Selepe said his body was his craft although as a child he did not grow up admiring bodybuilding. He was a passionate sports person whose time was spent on the school sports ground playing rugby and soccer. He was an athlete throughout his schooling days. It all changed when he was forced into body-building due to a hamstring injury. “I loved the three sporting codes, but due to a hamstring injury I quit to go into body-building. Not that I always wanted to be a bodybuilder. I just love looking good and being healthy.” Selepe’s role models who keep him in line are his two coaches Frederick Brisley and Romeo Pedro. His other models are Jeremy Buendia and Ulisses Williams Junior. Asked about his plans he said: “My confidence and undying spirit keep and make me better at what I do. “It’s all up in the mind, no pain no gain. Hard work pays off. “I’d like to see myself having my own gym. My own talent academy for the youngsters, somewhat a school of excellence.” To encourage himself every day the young man believes in his craft and pushes himself to remain optimistic against all odds by making the best of even the worst situations. He encourages people to practise what he does because it really works for him by raising his confidence.