The Montana independent teacher training institute campus, situated north of Pretoria, is ready to open for the 2018 academic year.  It joins other campuses - one in Morningside, KwaZulu-Natal, and another in Midrand, and will be open to students next year. Chief operating officer, Professor Patrick Bean, said the institution’s establishment was due to a shortage of teaching professionals especially in rural areas.  “I do not think we have a huge shortage of teachers in urban areas, but massive shortages exist in rural areas.  “The reality is that if one studies in Durban, they often want to work in that area once they complete their studies and forget there are other schools in rural areas,” he said. Bean said due to these findings, they also gave bursaries to students from rural areas, as they often wanted to go back home and plough back into the community. He told the Pretoria News that there was a great need for qualified teachers. “South Africa needs between 20000 to 30000 qualified teachers a year to satisfy the education need,” he said. And as it prepares to open, the Montana campus offers a higher certificate in pre-school education, a Bachelor of Education in foundation phase teaching and another Bachelor's degree in intermediate phase teaching qualifications.  Bean said they intended to add high school teaching to the programme. He said: “We are currently targeting to enrol 350 students but we will also grow the campus to enrol 1700 students.” Walter Haese, head of campus, took the Pretoria News team on a tour of the campus and residences. This proved to be a home away from home as it was well furnished, with beds, built-in cupboards, study desk and chair, wi-fi, and each room has en suite bathroom facilities. Bedrooms are for single and sharing students. The institution also offers various bursary schemes for first year students, one being a full four-year bursary for high performing but financially challenged students.  And for the applicant to qualify for the full bursary, they would have to pass their Grade 12 with at least 4 A symbols.  Applicants who had not yet passed their matric had to have passed their Grade 11 with at least 4 A symbols and subsequently get their required matric symbols in the Grade 12 final exams.  Another criteria was that the applicant’s parents may not have a combined income of more than R20000 a month.  The terms of the bursary are that recipients had to pass all their modules every year in order to 
continue to receive the bursary. Applications close early next year.