This comes in the wake of an alarming increase in the rate of armed robberies over the past two weeks. Police spokesperson Captain Colette Weilbach said both male and female pedestrians were targeted. “In all incidents electronic devices, mobile phones, handbags or money were the desired targets,” said Weilbach. Multiple robberies were reported over the past two weekends and pedestrians were the main victims, she said. On Sunday at 10pm, a 28-year-old man was robbed of his cellphone while walking towards a taxi rank in Menlyn. Three unknown men pushed him to the ground from behind and robbed him, the police said. On Saturday at 7am in Lynnwood Glen, a 24-year-old man was walking on the pavement while talking on his cellphone. An unknown man came from behind and grabbed it. Weilbach said there were ongoing patrols to prevent further incidents and apprehend offenders, especially with the festive season coming up. On Saturday at 7.45pm, a 29-year-old woman was walking with her friend in New Muckleneuk when an orange BMW 1 Series stopped next to them. A man got out and grabbed her handbag. The vehicle sped off before they could do anything. In a similar incident on Saturday, the police said that just before 11pm, a 25-year-old woman was walking with friends in Hatfield when a red BMW stopped next to them. “Two unknown men got out of the vehicle and approached them. "They tried to run away but the men managed to grab the woman’s handbag. When she tried to fight them, they pointed a firearm at her and took her handbag,” Weilbach said. Meanwhile, last Friday at 3am, a 19-year-old man was with a friend outside on the pavement in Lynnwood when an unknown man asked him for a cigarette. When he did not have any the man grabbed his phone from his pocket and ran away. Weilbach said these incidents showed that criminals were operating at all hours of the day in all sectors of the Brooklyn policing precinct. The SAPS advised pedestrians to trust their instincts and be aware of their surroundings at all times. Perpetrators tend to look for victims who seem unaware of their immediate surroundings. Pedestrians on their cellphones or those wearing headphones might appear less alert than other people. The police also encouraged people to walk on the pavement, facing oncoming traffic, saying robbers sometimes operated from vehicles; stopping next to their victims, robbing them and driving off.