The site elevation, wind direction and speed were constant factors that had to be contended with and factored in during the operation, spokesperson Johan Pieterse said yesterday. The wind had a direct impact on the operational plan and execution, he said. “The compost heaps that have been ablaze covered 40 000m² of the landfill site and measured 80 000m³. Thus far, 56 000m³ of compost have been extinguished and a remaining 16 000m³ is still burning. The other 6000m³ did not ignite,” Pieterse said. The department applied an incident action plan that focused on the actual extinguishing of the deep-seated fire within the compost piles. This plan, as well as other tactics employed to deal with the generation of smoke from the remaining smouldering compost piles, had proved to be effective in reducing the volume of smoke emissions from the smouldering piles. Last Sunday evening (November 5), one of the rows of shredded garden waste started emitting smoke, suggesting there must have been a fire burning underneath. The cause of the fire still remains unknown. However, it is suspected that it may have been caused by what is known as spontaneous combustions of waste. This is caused by a combination of the high temperature in the belly of a waste heap, together with the heatwave weather conditions. “Due to the intense heat and strong wind, the fire spread throughout the entire landfill site of compost heaps causing a cloud of smoke that hovers over some parts of the city’s eastern suburbs. It should be mentioned that the smoke has reduced drastically,” Pieterse said. “We would like to thank the community and the ward councillor, Rita Aucamp, for their continued kind and generous assistance in providing food and drinks to personnel operating at the scene. “It goes without saying that firefighting efforts of this type of fire has to be systematic. As a result it is time-consuming.” He reassured the community that all efforts were being undertaken to stabilise and extinguish the compost fire as quickly as possible, without compromising the thorough work of the operation under way.