Their stance was in reaction to MMC for housing and human settlements Mandla Nkomo, who said the City planned to allocate the houses to their rightful beneficiaries by the end of this week. Nkomo said the SAPS and metro police officers would evict those who were allocated houses by the community leaders. Community leader Joseph Bapela said it would be inconsiderate on the part of the City to remove new occupants of houses because they were disabled and pensioners. “We are not going to take them out of the houses because many of them are the disabled or senior citizens. The municipality will have to verify their status as rightful RDP housing beneficiaries while they are inside their houses,” Bapela said. He said that in the event the City concluded that houses were allocated to the wrong people, it would have to devise plans to give them new houses. Bapela justified the action to allocate houses by community leaders, saying it was legal because it was “done in broad daylight”. More than 2 000 descended on the area where RDP houses were built, but remained unoccupied. They threatened to occupy them by force. Some bunked work because they had looked forward to getting houses, but left disappointed as only the disabled and elderly people were 
prioritised. People said they were tenants in backyard rooms and had run out of patience because the City made them wait for houses for a long time. Bapela said the City had reached an agreement with the community to make available a database of housing beneficiaries before a new process to allocate them RDP houses.  He claimed that those who had been allocated houses also appeared on the list of the municipality. “We have been requesting for a database of the people on the housing list for far too long from our authorities. Every time we make a request for it, we are told to wait for two to three days. It has already been eight months (that we) waited for the list,” he said. According to him, the allocation of houses to people without the City’s permission had to be done after the municipality took about six months to approve the list of beneficiaries. He alleged that Nkomo knew about the alleged scam of selling RDP houses in the area. He claimed a local councillor, Sipho Maila, was behind it. Both Nkomo and Maila had rejected the allegations, challenging their accusers to bring forward evidence to prove that such a crime was committed. Bapela said action by the community was led by a steering committee made up of different civil and political formations. 