Multiplay Titans 120/3 Titans won by 7 wickets  On paper, with two team-sheets filled with international talent, this had the makings of a classic, however on turf the big crowd here witnessed boring one-sided affair. The Cape Cobras’s players and coaching staff will have some serious questions to ask themselves following a dreadful trio of performances in Gauteng in the first week of the RamSlam. Despite having one of the best attacks in the competition, they conceded a record 231 runs in the opener against the Dolphins, they then put in a ragged display against the Lions last Friday and yesterday they collapsed completely against the competition’s favourites. Whereas their shortcomings with the ball and in the field were exposed in those first two matches, here everything fell apart, starting with their batsmen, who, skipper JP Duminy besides, failed to come to terms with a difficult two paced surface. They lost openers Hashim Amla and Wayne Parnell early, with both trying to go too hard at the ball. The best period of the Cobras’ innings came when Duminy and Temba Bavuma added 31 runs off 29 balls for the third wicket, but their inability to rotate the strike more efficiently saw the pressure build. The Titans had called on their spinners Tabraiz Shamsi and Aiden Markram to turn the screws further. The duo combined for eight overs conceding just 36 runs while picking up a wicket apiece. Dale Steyn delivered a performance that was reminiscent of his best work. His pace is beginning to improve while he also showed great control through his four over burst. He was rightly pleased with that performance, saying afterwards that his body - including his shoulder - was fine, but that some muscles were sore. “The more competitive cricket I play, the better I’m starting to feel. Playing cricket is quite tough, and maybe four-day cricket, bowling 16 overs a day is a bit hard for me right now. But I feel I’m getting stronger,” Steyn said, who finished with 2/16 from four overs Duminy top scored for the Cobras with 40 (43b, 3x4, 1x6), but their final target was hopelessly inadequate against such a powerful batting line-up. Vernon Philander provided some early reasons for optimism picking up the opening pair inside the first three overs, but a rush of boundaries from AB de Villiers quickly regained the initiative for the hosts. Aiden Markram notched up a fine half century (45b, 5x4, 2x6) as the Titans coasted to their third bonus point victory of the competition. They have four days off until their next match against the Dolphins in Benoni. The Cobras will have a lot of hard talking to do ahead of their first home match against the Lions in Paarl also on Friday. In the other game played yesterday, the Lions' Wiaan Mulder smashed a four off the last ball of the game to secure victory by six wickets against the Dolphins in Potchefstroom. Reeza Hendricks led the charge as the Lions chased down the Dolphins 169/6, scoring an unbeaten 102 off 94 balls. But the moment of the match belonged to Mulder who walked onto the pitch with one ball to spare after Dwaine Pretorius was run out on the penultimate ball of the match. Needing three runs to win, Mulder duly replied to the pressure, swatting a four off Robbie Frylinck for the win.