The mobile health facility had been established at the nearby Erasmuskloof fire station. The decision to set it up followed the fire at the landfill site, which broke out on Sunday evening and was suspected to have been caused by spontaneous combustion of waste. Acting mayor Cilliers Brink visited the site yesterday and said nearby residents didn't have to panic as they had established a mobile health facility near them. “We will also erect tents at the Sports Park in Lyttelton to accommodate residents who may need an overnight place in order to escape possible smoke inhalation. “A formidable team comprising various emergency services from the immediate metros has been roped in together with Working on Fire to intensify our efforts to stabilise the fire. "The team is doing everything it can to contain the situation which will remain with us for the next few days,” he said. Chief of Tshwane Emergency Services, Previn Govender, said they aimed to stabilise the situation and complete everything by Monday. “The cause of the fire is not yet known, but we suspect it was caused by the decomposition of compost heat and the heatwave weather conditions. “When the heat is between 150°C and 200°C, the waste spontaneously combusts inside the pile, and at some point during the combustion process it finds its way to the surface. Once it gets oxygen, it starts to burn,” he said. Govender said to extinguish the fire they would have to pull piles of the waste heap apart to get to the core of the fire. He said during the process of pulling the waste pile apart, they had to apply water to cool the compost as they moved towards the core. He added: “The smoke is not toxic. It is obviously going to be a nuisance, but is not a health risk. However, though this is non-toxic smoke, people with health conditions such as asthma may be affected.” More than 100 emergency service personnel will be at the site working around the clock to douse the fire. Brink said the Department of Agriculture and the environmental management department would conduct an assessment of all landfill sites of this nature immediately in order to anticipate and prevent this happening again, and also to test fire-readiness. Residents of areas affected have been advised to close their windows and doors to limit smoke inhalation. Children and elderly persons, particularly those with respiratory conditions, are urged to stay indoors. Residents are advised to consult their nearest health centres should they experience breathing difficulties, in addition to the temporary mobile health facility provided by the City of Tshwane.