She said she was a mother “of many” and spoke about her role in advocating for the rights of victims of sexual and domestic crimes, and how she had dedicated her life to caring for children. Berry-Kriel said she also, on a day-to-day basis, worked hard to ensure that the young ones received adequate education to become future leaders. She said she and her husband Leon co-founded the organisation in 2009 after being involved in numerous charity initiatives around the impoverished informal settlement. And today the community has grown so much that the foundation’s premises are at the centre of the community, and has became a place for locals to cast their votes. Their vision is to help in the transformation of informal settlements and other high-priority poverty areas and turn them into stable and economically viable communities that provide young and old people with opportunities for education, employment, business and recreation, she said. “I have spent all my professional working years serving in non-profit initiatives to better the lives of less privileged people,” she said, adding that she had worked for numerous ministries before she founded Viva. Berry-Kriel is well known in Alaska for being a vocal and informative activist against sexual violence.  Are you originally from
Tshwane? No, I am originally from Bloemfontein but I was actually born in Colesberg in the Northern Cape.  What do you like most about the city? It is a beautiful city that has everything you find in big cities like Joburg but without all the intensities.  Where do you hang out or go for fun? I love to ride motorcycles and watch movies with my husband. I also enjoy spending time in my vegetable garden with my chickens and sheep.  What would you change if you were mayor? I would make government systems and processes simple, just like the Germans did. It is difficult to access certain people and services in our country, so I would provide adequate services to people living in informal settlements. I would build more roads, police stations and medical care centres and also intensify sexual violence awareness campaigns.  What do you think are the 
advantages of living in the city? The advantages of living in the City of Tshwane include the weather, the diversity, the city’s history and the fact that it is accessible and modern.  What job do you do and does it satisfy you? I am the chief executive of Viva Foundation and I am blessed to have very, very, high job satisfaction. I cannot see myself doing anything else.  If you could move away from the city, where would you go and why? I am not sure about a specific location but it would definitely be somewhere in the bushes. I love wildlife, I would enjoy being around wild animals more.  Which sports teams do you support? I am so embarrassed, I do not have a sports team that I support. I have never been a sports person.  Are there any people from the city that you look up to or shaped your life? Yes, all the committed and caring staff at the Viva Foundation. They motivate and inspire me to keep doing what I do. I am so blessed to be influenced by colleagues such as centre manager Portia Mahlangu and social worker Lizy Moagi.  What mode of transport do you use and is it convenient? I drive a Ford Figo; it is convenient for me. I also ride the Gautrain, depending on where I go.