According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), antibiotics are medicines used to prevent and treat bacterial infections, and antimicrobial resistance occurs when micro-organisms such as bacteria, viruses, fungi and parasites change in ways that render the medications used to cure the infections they cause ineffective. When the micro-organisms become resistant to most antimicrobials they are often referred to as “super bugs”. WHO has key facts about antimicrobial resistance and says antimicrobial resistance is one of the biggest threats to global health, food security and development today. Antibiotics including antimicrobial resistance can affect anyone, of any age, in any country. Antibiotic resistance occurs naturally, but the misuse of antibiotics in humans and animals is accelerating the process, the world body said. “A growing number of infections such as pneumonia, tuberculosis, gonorrhoea, and salmonellosis are becoming harder to treat as the antibiotics used to treat them become less effective. Antibiotic resistance leads to longer hospital stays, higher medical costs and increased mortality,” the WHO said. It also said of major concern was how antimicrobial resistance was threatening the world’s ability to treat common infectious diseases. It said the problem arose when, in countries without standard treatment guidelines, antibiotics were over prescribed by health workers and overused by the public. “Antibiotics are taken without professional assessment of patients.” There was an urgent need to stop and prevent antibiotic resistance, WHO advised, saying: “Only use antibiotics when prescribed by a certified health professional. Never demand antibiotics if your health worker says you don’t need them. Always follow your health worker’s advice when using antibiotics. Never share or use leftover antibiotics. “Prevent infections by regularly washing hands, preparing food hygienically, avoiding close contact with sick people, practising safe sex and keeping vaccinations up to date.” People are also urged to prepare food hygienically, following the WHO Five Keys to Safer Food - keep clean, separate raw and cooked, cook thoroughly, keep food at safe temperatures, use safe water and raw materials. “Choose foods that have been produced without the use of antibiotics for growth promotion or disease prevention in healthy animals.” A global action plan has been put on top of the agenda of antimicrobial and antibiotic resistance after it was endorsed at the World Health Assembly in May 2015. The global action plan on antimicrobial resistance has five strategic objectives meant to improve awareness and understanding of antimicrobial resistance, to strengthen surveillance and research, to reduce the incidence of infection, to optimise the use of antimicrobial medicines and to ensure sustainable investment in countering antimicrobial resistance. Plans to reduce the existence of antimicrobial resistance were placed on the table when heads of states at the UN General Assembly in New York, last September committed to address the root causes of antimicrobial resistance across multiple sectors, especially human health, animal health and agriculture. The National Health Laboratory Service said South Africa also made the call for development of a National Strategy Framework for antimicrobial resistance for the years 2014-24. One of the main strategic objectives of the framework is to optimise surveillance and early detection of antimicrobial resistance. And the South African Medical Research Council, by funding research, supports South African drug discovery and development work on drug-resistant bacterial infections.