It has been a year of mixed emotions for Bulls centre Burger Odendaal. After enduring the pain of being part of the Bulls dismal Super Rugby campaign, Odendaal finished off the year on a high after leading the Blue Bulls to the semi-finals of the Currie Cup and culminated last night when Odendaal walked away with Senior Player of the Year, Currie Cup Players’ Player of the Year and Super Rugby Coaches’ recognition Award at the Bulls Players Awards held at Loftus Versfeld. The 24-year-old Odendaal was by far one of the few standout players in the Bulls Super Rugby season that saw them only manage to win four out of their 15 games. But Odendaal proved his worth in the Currie Cup as he showed his versatility by moving from No 12 to outside centre while leading from the front when handed the captaincy of the team under John Mitchell. With the No 12 jersey set to be his after the departure of Springbok Jan Serfontein, Odendaal will be vital in the Bulls ambitions of doing well in next year’s revamped Super Rugby competition. Other winners on the night include lock Jason Jenkins who was Super Rugby Forward of the Year while wing Travis Ismaiel was Super Rugby Back of the Year, with flank Ruan Steenkamp walking away with the Super Rugby Player’s Player of the Year. In the Currie Cup prop Pierre Schoeman and new Springbok Warrick Gelant took the Forward and Back of the Year Awards, respectively. Pote Human was named Coach of the Year after guiding the Tuks team to victory in the Varsity Cup and finished off the year by being forwards coach with the Currie Cup side and will do the same job with the Super Rugby team next year. The young and talented lock Ruben van Heerden was crowned Junior Player of the Year after a breakthrough season in the Currie Cup which saw him and second row partner Aston Fortuin make a name for themselves in senior rugby. Fortuin was also recognised for his efforts in the SuperSport Rugby Challenge as the Most Improved Player in that competition. For the full list of winners, visit www.iol.co.za/sport.  Super Rugby Forward: Jason Jenkins Back: Travis Ismaiel Player’s Player: Ruan Steenkamp Most Promising or Improved Player: Pierre Schoeman Coaches’ Recognition Award: Burger Odendaal  Currie Cup Forward: Pierre Schoeman Back: Warrick Gelant Player’s Player: Burger Odendaal Most Promising or Improved Player: Johan Grobbelaar Coaches’ Recognition Award: John William Meyer