Taxi operators descended on Pretoria and marched to the Department of Transport and the Union Buildings to protest against the failure of the government to scrap traffic violation tickets, and to demand an increase in the money they received when surrendering old taxis as part of the recapitalisation plan. The about 2000 taxi drivers converged at Marabastad and marched to the Department of Transport, singing and chanting bearing placards. The National Taxi Alliance (NTA) members were joined by others associations like the Menlyn Taxi Association, Federal Local and Long Distance Association and Vuta Taxi 
Association. Instead of the mayhem anticipated and that has characterised taxi protests, order was maintained as police officers kept a tight grip on events, making sure they stuck to the laid out plans and didn't stray into the rest of the CBD. Grateful for the lack of madness was Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi, who said most matriculants arrived on time for their English Paper 2 exam yesterday morning. “Our report indicates that fewer than 20 learners were redirected to alternative venues to write their exam. It is important to note that, most learners who arrived late were not more than an hour late. A handful of learners who were an hour late, were accommodated. No absenteeism has been reported due to the strike,” said Lesufi. Echoing Lesufi's sentiments was  NTA president Francis Masitsa who said he too was happy that matriculants could make it for their exams despite the strike. “It was not our objective to disturb the matric exams. We too have children who are in school,” he said. The protest was necessitated by Transport Minister Joe Maswanganyi's failure to respond to the serious problems facing the taxi industry, he said, which they felt impeded the growth of the industry and effectively compromised road safety and customer care. The taxi operators were initially due to march during Transport Month last month, but cancelled at the 11th hour after the minister agreed to meet them. But, Masitsa said, Maswanganyi did not stick to his promise. The  taxi operators also wanted subsidies from the government, warning that if those did not come it would be at a hefty cost to taxi users. Othergrievances included the provisions of the National Land Transport Act, matters related to operations, the Integrated Public Transport Network or the BRT system, compensation for operators surrendering an operating licence, the Taxi Recapitalisation Programme, and the public transport subsidy. They delivered a memorandum to the department and proceeded to the Union Buildings. In the process they blocked Nelson Mandela Drive and Madiba, Johannes Ramokhoase, Francis Baard, Nana Sita, and Boom streets. They sang and chanted under the watchful eye of law enforcement officers, and gave the department and Presidency 21 day to respond to their grievances. From early in the morning, commuters across Pretoria and as far as Joburg were left stranded and were caught up in traffic as the taxis made their way to Pretoria, with pupils struggling to get to school. Some roads were blocked with burning tyres, with resultant gridlocks spreading out as far as Soweto. Commuters said they were forced to hitch-hike to work and school. Others said they had, in anticipation of the inconvenience, woken up at 4am to beat the congestion. And as bus services and City services were disrupted, there were reports of violence, with a Cullinan police officer, who had attempted to talk to drivers, being assaulted, police spokesperson Colonel Lungelo Dlamini said. In Sinoville, one taxi driver drove towards traffic and collided with three cars. “Four people were injured and he has been arrested. He will be charged with reckless driving,” said Dlamini. The operators marched back to Marabastad from the Union Buildings after 4pm, the results of which were felt along the roads out of Pretoria until late into the afternoon.