Five trucks left the Shoprite Group’s distribution centre in Centurion on Friday morning to deliver fodder to the Northern Cape, where the worst drought conditions in a century are killing livestock and threatening the livelihoods of  farmers and farmworkers. The fodder provided included soya beans, akkerboon, outlands grass, mealie leaf and lucerne. Boreholes, water tanks, JoJo tanks and planting of new feed are all urgent interventions. Three trucks arrived in Garies on Saturday and another in the Richtersveld in the Northern Cape on Sunday, providing much-needed relief to these communities. They heeded the calls from struggling farmers, committing hundreds of thousands of rand to transport costs, goods and other assistance to those affected by the drought. As dams, like those in Beaufort West, run dry, leaving communities to rely on groundwater and treated sewage, communities are increasingly seeking help. Dr Imtiaz Sooliman of Gift of the Givers said it had been a period of great distress for many farmers and animals in the Northern and Eastern Cape for several months. “Recently, a farmer and his wife tried to rescue 157 abandoned calves whose mothers were too weak and malnourished to nurture their offspring with love, warmth and nourishment; only eight survived. The farmer wanted to commit suicide. Two months ago a farmer shot himself.” He said the chances of this recurring were very real as farmers were at their wits' end and unable to provide for their animals, and by extension, their families, as they watched their prized animals disappearing with each passing day. “They are totally helpless and losing hope rapidly. The animals are in desperate need of fodder. The drought has destroyed all vegetation,” Sooliman said. Other drought-relief efforts  included the launch of the Smart Water Meter Challenge and sponsorship of the installation of 100 smart water meters at Cape Town’s top 100 water-consuming schools. Sending Shoprite mobile soup  kitchens to serve in disaster-stricken communities, as was currently happening in Beaufort West. Continued support of 36 PlayPumps, which brought clean water to approximately 350000 to 400000 people across South Africa daily. Launch of the in-store Disaster Relief Fund. Those who want to participate in any aspect of this project are welcome to contribute to Gift of the Givers by contacting Dr Imtiaz Sooliman of Gift of the Givers on 0713652470.