Mnangagwa, the second vice-president to be fired in three years, after Joice Mujuru, becomes one of many victims of Mugabe’s ruthless hold on power. But the lesson for us here is that there is no place in journalism for partisan, embedded reporting. Journalists must serve society, not political leaders, factions and narrow interests. For years, some Zimbabwean journalists working for state media have always batted for the ruling Zanu-PF and for factions in Mugabe’s party - dubbed G40 and Lacoste, respectively. It’s a dangerous game and the price to pay is heavy. Those who didn’t toe the line or showed any level of independence were hounded out of Zim Papers, the company that publishes the flagship Herald daily, the mouthpiece of the party and government, and its sister papers The Sunday Mail and The Chronicle. The same applies to those working for the state-run Zimbabwe Broadcasting Corporation (ZBC). Lacoste is the faction led by Mnangagwa (so-called because he is nicknamed the Crocodile), now hospitalised in Joburg, while Mugabe’s wife Grace leads the G40 grouping (those in their forties). The battle between these two factions played out in these newspapers and on ZBC. And like sheep to slaughter, some journalists sold their souls to serve the factions. But it is not only those working for state-owned media who dabbled in party political factions. Privately-owned media also pushed factions and the agenda of the opposition parties in the hope that Mugabe would be dislodged from power. And for decades, the strategy has failed and Mugabe has remained in power and got more power-drunk with each headline. In South Africa, we saw how some journalists ruined their careers in the aftermath of the ANC’s elective conference in Polokwane in 2007, where, seemingly against all odds, Jacob Zuma emerged as party president. Those who had held the candle for Thabo Mbeki didn’t see Zuma coming, and even when it was clear as day that Mbeki would lose, they refused to see the writing on the wall. They were too heavily invested in this horse to see anything else. As a result, they were left badly burnt and hurt. Yet we didn’t learn. In Mangaung in 2012, history repeated itself as some among us sought to fight factional battles, with some backing Kgalema Motlanthe and others the Zuma faction. The results were disastrous. Ahead of the ANC’s winner-takes-all conference next month, some journalists have invested heavily in one faction or the other. In their reporting, numbers are quoted without context, claiming this or that horse leads the race. Depending on who you believe, this or that horse is galloping home to victory. Issues and stories are framed in a particular context or narrative to smear one candidate or the other. They call it connecting the dots, yet it is just smear. None of the front runners are spared this smear. What is clear is that journalism ethics have been sacrificed to push narrow factional interests as journalists willingly partake in ANC internal factional wars. Our audiences are being short-changed in the process. We must heed the warning from Zimbabwe Independent editor Dumisani Muleya, who writes: “ one of the biggest lessons which must be learnt by Zimbabwean journalists from the political fall and demise of (Mnangagwa) is that partisan and even embedded reporting is unprofessional, undesirable and unsustainable. “After checking into caravans and jumping into the trenches to report the story from one side, for whatever reasons, partisan media hacks have discovered captive journalism does not work.” Partisan reporting comes at a heavy price. This Mnangagwa saga has left some editors and reporters badly exposed and their reputations in tatters. Through partisan framing of issues and manipulation or deception, some wrote half-baked, distorted or even false stories (lies) to push ill-informed and unsustainable narratives on internal Zanu-PF power struggles and Mugabe’s succession. “Yet, sticking to ethics, facts and the truth remains the best safeguard for professional and truth-seeking journalism. Journalists must remain above the fray. Hope we have learnt something from this sad chapter in Zim journalism and can go back to the basics to end polarisation and other deep-rooted problems in the profession, to restore credibility - our main asset or currency - and eroded public trust.” - Independent Media Group