RAPULA MOATSHE Shoppers at Dennlyn Mall in Mamelodi yesterday clamoured for Tshwane mayor Solly Msimanga's attention as he handed over pamphlets to encourage those unemployed to register on the municipal central database. Those registered in the database stood a good chance of being employed among the 23 000 workers the City wanted to hire from January under the revised Expanded Public Works Programme (EPWP), according to Msimanga. However, he cautioned that not all registered people would be roped into the programme. "We are not going to be employing everybody but at least it will give an opportunity to people to get a foot in. And not only are we going to do this for the EPWP, we are also keeping this as a database so that we can also tap into the private sector and say this is the workforce that we have in Tshwane," he said. His visit to the area marked the official launch of the revised EPWP, which promised to employ people irrespective of their political affiliation. Msimanga vowed to rid the recruitment drive of nepotism and cronyism, which previously marred the programme. "People were just hired without proper processes being followed. You just see people wearing uniforms without knowing what was the process that had been followed,"he said.
 
Msimanga also addressed journalists during the unveiling of the revised EPWP. He said the launch was meant to mark an aggressive process that would lead to the realisation of thousands of job opportunities for the unemployed, destitute and impoverished City residents. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  The EPWP was national government’s programme aimed at creating temporary work opportunities for unemployed South Africans, Msimanga said. Two months back the Council approved a policy framework on the recruitment of the EPWP participants in Tshwane.
 
"In this revised policy, we have done away with all the shenanigans that characterised the initial implementation of EPWP, which came to be known colloquially as Vat Alles, with a view to giving all unemployed residents of Tshwane an equal opportunity,"Msimanga said. Msimanga would visit various places in the East until Sunday with a view to encourage interested and qualifying individuals to register on the City central database at their various identified registration centres across all the seven regions. Msimanga interacted with residents and explained to them how the recruitment process would unfold. "One of the proposed amendments to the revised policy includes the registration of eligible EPWP beneficiaries on a central database, with beneficiaries selected through an open and audited lottery-like system. "This random selection will be open to public observation and such selection processes will also be published in advance in the wards and Regions from which the EPWP beneficiaries will be recruited," he said. He emphasised that the selection process would be subjected to an independent audit to ensure transparency. Those qualifying needed to be unemployed people between the ages of 18 and 60 and in possession of a South African identity document. The registration would take place from November 27 until December 1. "We want the communities to register to be on the City of Tshwane database so that when those opportunities become available we are then able to employ them using the transparent and fair  process,"he said.