Two days afterwards while the world marked Remembrance Day, my daughter and I were celebrating a remembrance day of our own. The day I first held Ruby in my arms, the first time she smiled at me. She was wearing a pink and white checked outfit and the most beautiful smile in the world. It has been nine years, but I remember it like it was yesterday. Every day, without fail, I say thank you for her. Saying yes to adopting Ruby was the most important, and best, decision I ever made. There are thousands of children in South Africa in need of “forever” families, but it is not a decision to be taken lightly, and it is not for everyone. During the adoption process I had to attend a course and we also had a support group going for a while. People had different reasons for choosing to adopt and it wasn’t just fertility. One couple had two boys and wanted a daughter, another felt there were so many children needing homes and they decided to give two of the children a home instead of having their own. I watched them interact with their children (in my book an adopted child is your child, nothing annoys me more than reading an article where a distinction is made). I was struck by the love. The little boys adored their sister from day one and by the time she was toddling around she was ruling the roost. The couple who adopted the two children a couple of years apart are beyond happy and a closer family you won’t find. On the course we were warned of the potential pitfalls, legal processes and prepared for what lay ahead. But nothing prepares you for the long-awaited telephone call “can you come to the office we have a potential baby for you”. Can I come to the office? Can I come to the office? Never mind meeting the next day, an hour later I was sitting, or trying to, in the social worker’s office waiting for her to open the file on her computer. Then I saw her little face My mind was spinning and numb at the same time; the social worker was speaking but I couldn’t take it in. I took a deep breath and got my brain under control but I could not look away from the screen. That little person with the cutest mouth was going to be my daughter, she even looked like a Ruby. At that point sensible Tania stepped up and told her emotional self to chill. I told the social worker I wanted the baby but I would try to be rational and think it over and let her know the next morning. I returned to work in a daze and showed the picture to colleagues and they wanted to know when she was coming. They couldn’t believe I hadn’t said yes already. I didn’t sleep that night. Of course the answer was yes, I was thinking about education plans; would she like me and dozens of other things. The next six weeks were hell. So close yet so far. I had to wait for the legal process, final medical reports, and book tickets to Durban where she was waiting for me. It was so strange, people asking me to year-end functions but telling them: “I don’t know I will have my baby then”. It was strange boarding the plane with a bag of baby clothes and a carrier and knowing that when I returned my baby would be in them. My baby is now a tall 9-year-old with the cutest mouth and she’s the apple of my eye. I can’t imagine loving any child more. We have our “things” we do and secret words. I thank my mother, sister, brother-in-law, nieces and friends who made Ruby a part of the family circle from the minute I walked through the door with her. Now she also has my stepfather, and no cousins could be closer than Ruby and Bella, who are each other’s greatest fans and constantly complain that going to school interferes with their time together. When I look at Ruby I wonder about the whole nurture versus nature debate. Ruby is bright, very observant, kind and loves colour and drawing. She is not at all athletic and very stubborn (sounds a lot like me). I am leaning to nurture but not having met her biological mother I cannot know for sure. Ruby wants to meet the mommy out of whose tummy she came and I have said we will find her together when she is 18. I do not feel threatened as Ruby has made it clear I am her mother and she loves me more than all the stars times a gazillion, she is just curious (and so am I). I also thank her birth mother for making the decision to give her up for adoption. Ruby has brought so much joy to so many lives and I have never regretted my decision, not for one minute. I, like thousands of others, can see the joy in adoption. We drew a smiley face on our hands, got family and friends to join us, took a photo and posted it to social media using the hashtag #WorldAdoptionDay.