“Income support is crucial and should not be compromised by government’s failure to deliver child support grant. “If this happens, it will have dire consequences on child nutrition and health,” Professor Leila Patel, from the University of Johannesburg’s Centre for Social Development in Africa, has said. Patel was speaking at the release of a new report conducted by UJ in conjunction with the Universities of Chicago and Utrecht as well as the Department of Planning, Monitoring, and Evaluation and the Programme to Support Pro-Poor Policy Development (PSPPD). The study, which comes days before World Children’s Day on November 20, and almost 10 months since Sassa faced a debacle over grant payments, looks at the impact child grants have had on the well-being of the country’s young children. It also highlights the role government plays in supporting families of these children. Themed: “Family contexts, child support grants and child well-being in South Africa”, researchers sampled up to 3 132 children under the age of 8 who lived with their relatives in Doornkop, Soweto, and Moutse in the Sekhukhune District, 
Limpopo. Quantitative data used included national statistical data and information from the National Income Dynamic Survey of 2008. Patel said the aim of the report was to cast focus on how Child Support Grants (CSGs) can be improved. “What we wanted to do was to build on strength of CSG and poverty reduction,” she said. She added that the PSPPD had called for proposals around child grants to be made, adding that the Centre decided to pitch their report on families. “Our research flows directly from past research. “Although the CSG is doing so well, we argue it is not enough. “It is not sufficient to address multifaceted needs children have,” she said. It is thought that up to 12 million receive R380 in child support grant money every month. The amount was increased by R20 in April this year. Six out of 10 children also live below the poverty line. Patel said 80% of eligible children were still not receiving a grant, adding that this was detrimental to their health and well-being. “Poverty is a risk factor for growth and development of children,” she said. The study also found that child support grants beneficiaries under the age of 5 were of normal weight and height. “It is therefore important to start children on grants at an early age,” Patel said, adding that the core message from the research was that the government now needed to step up by not only providing a cash injection to families but an overall support structure that would assist families to raise children who will contribute meaningfully to society in the future. Patel also said that when the grant was designed 20 years ago, its intention was to support families by way of cash and increasing food security. Professor Tessa Hochfeld, of the centre, said the deteriorating economic situation in the country and rising poverty is expected to have dire consequences for poor children and their families. The report also revealed how some households rely on an income of R394 per month, particularly in rural areas. It said complementary family and community-based programmes are recommended to prevent social problems from occurring and that if implemented these programmes would fast-track the positive gains already made by government in providing grants.