Moduke, who is in his early forties, runs 24 Hollard branches and Boxer stores, in a venture that started three years ago while he was employed as a portfolio manager at Hollard. He said the opportunity to own franchises arose, and he, being passionate about the entrepreneurial route, grabbed the opportunity with both hands. Today, Moduke and his team have employed more than 300 people, with more than 50 of them coming from Pretoria. Six of his branches are  in Pretoria, among them at the Hammanskraal Jubilee Mall, in Soshanguve, Wonderpark, Ga-Rankuwa, Bloed Street in the CBD, and Attlyn Mall in Atteridgeville. He holds a degree in marketing obtained at the University of the Witwatersrand. “I was an employee at Hollard when the opportunity arose, and they wanted people from Hollard to be the first to get them, so we went through a rigorous process to qualify to be franchise owners and fortunately I was one of the people to roll out the programme. “I’ve been entrepreneurial my whole life, and I saw an opportunity and thought it would be great to exit the corporate space and move into business,” Moduke said. Moduke’s other passion lies with empowering the youth, and most of his recruits come straight from matric and have no previous work experience. “We said we would not give handouts, but we would try and make sure we empowered young people in employment, so you find that 90% of our people are young, and they come straight into the business world. “We don’t even hire from outside when we promote. We take people that we’ve had on board and have successfully delivered in the business. They are the ones we promote to senior roles,” he said. Candidates either work as branch consultants, who are normally positioned inside the branch and are responsible for selling products and do servicing elements or respond to queries. Others, he said, networked as field agents who went out and marketed or sold products. He said the process of grooming employees was strenuous and tough, as they employed inexperienced people. “You are dealing with people who were never employed, so you really need to be passionate and be truthful, so inexperience is the biggest challenge.” He said “staff turnover is another challenge, people give up in the process and recruitment must be done all over again”. Moduko urged people to work on uplifting small businesses in order to reduce the unemployment rate in the communities. “We need to get many small businesses that need support such as electricians and cleaning companies. Let them be from communities and not corporate companies. “Don’t hire from outside when there are small businesses that can get the job done,” he said. He answered a few questions to prove he was truly a son of Tshwane.  Are you originally from Tshwane? No, I am originally from Mogwase in Rustenburg. I studied at Wits and worked in Tshwane.  What do you like about the city? Tshwane is a very vibrant city with lots of opportunities, and it attracts people from all walks of life.  Where do you hang out or go for fun? I’m trying my hand at golf with little success and I also enjoy Formula One car racing events.  What five things would you change if you were the mayor? Deal decisively with the drug problem among the youth. Invest in entrepreneurial programmes to stimulate the local economy and deal with unemployment. Invest in free education through sponsorships and grants. Make Tshwane the Silicon Valley of South Africa by encouraging and supporting as many start-up companies as possible. Invest in sports at development level.  If you could move away from the city, where would you go to and why? I am based in Joburg and seriously considering Tshwane as my next home as I spend most of my time doing business there.  Which sports team do you support? Bafana Bafana.  Which mode of transport do you use and is it convenient? I use my own vehicle as I am forced to do lots of driving to various business sites. However, I would have preferred public transport if it could get to all our business sites.