LAST Friday, I hopped on to a taxi at the Pretoria taxi rank at Bloed Street Mall to go home to Pankop. It was a taxi full of parents and their children. The children clung to paltry plastic bags of clothes. Almost none of them had a cheery face. I realised that they were in town to buy Christmas clothes. One of the mothers was agitated with her son. She snapped. “You are really going to irritate me. I bought you clothes. That’s something that your absent father is failing to do,” she told him. “I did not make you alone. I am trying my best to be a good mother and this is the thanks I get from you? “You are such an ungrateful child.” Lo and behold. The other women jumped on the bandwagon. Without holding back, they erupted. “These kids are the same. They show little or no appreciation to us as their mothers. “My daughter is equally mad at me because I couldn’t afford to buy her All Star sneakers,” one said. As I sat in the front seat of the taxi, I thought to myself, these are some of the frank conversations I love about people from the village. They hardly hold back when they are in a crowd. Your business as a child will be shared with everyone, and you could even get a hiding right there and then. I looked back to suss out the ages of the mothers and their children. The mothers were relatively young, maybe between 30 and 40, and the children teenagers. In their hands they held treasures. Christmas clothes are a big deal. The absence of new Christmas clothes can leave many teenagers heartbroken, miserable and feeling like outsiders. There were two to three years growing up when I did not get Christmas clothes. I literally cried the whole day. Usually, the lack of Christmas clothes was accompanied by a lack of good food from December 24, right through to New Year’s Day. Those were years of famine. I faked illnesses, to such a point that I eventually got sick. The pain is unexplainable, the tears are hard to hold back. Another conversation ensued as one of the kids in the taxi responded in tears, with a broken and piercing voice. “Yes, you refused to buy me those Nike sneakers, but you will be drinking your ciders, Savannas and Hunters Gold from the 1st of December until January from your stokvels. “How is that fair that you will have alcohol to drink for the whole month and I just asked for one pair of sneakers and you refuse?” The crying boy’s comment was followed by dead silence. He stroked some nerves in the taxi. I said to myself. Bingo! So, as the conversation was open to everyone, as is always the case in a taxi, I quickly jumped in with my two cents worth.  I was one of two or three men in the taxi and with no kid in my company, I greeted everyone again to break the silence. I then said to the parents; “Did you all hear this kid? He just gave us a solution to the Christmas clothes challenge we have year in and year out. “If you can have stokvels for Christmas groceries, stokvels for festive alcohol and so on, why can’t we start a stokvel for Christmas clothes for your children? I added that a stokvel of that kind would also lessen the burden of buying school uniforms at the beginning of the year. The kids embraced the idea. One dared: “Actually mom, you could take some of your stokvel money for alcohol and come back to buy me the All Stars.” The mother did not respond in words, she just gave her child a look. That conversation about a clothes stokvel made our journey home so peaceful. It may have not gotten those kids the clothes they desired, but their mothers were already starting WhatsApp groups with their cousins, siblings and friends for Christmas clothes stokvels. I hope those kids will have a better Christmas come 2018. Kabelo Chabalala is the founder of the Young Men Movement. E-mail kabelo03chabalala@gmail.com, Twitter @KabeloJay, Facebook Kabelo Chabalala.