“Is this a new way of keeping us black people away from the city centres again? By 7am, almost every designated parking spot in the CBD is taken. When you find an open space and park your car, the metro police mercilessly tows your car immediately. I had to pay more than R1000 a few minutes after they took my car,” said Cedric Pasi, from Soshanguve. “This towing business has become a cash cow for mayor Solly Msimanga. When he was campaigning to be mayor, he lied that the metro police officers would not be used for cash spinning. “Now it is worse. Msimanga lied to everyone; now he has unleashed tow trucks to raise money for the municipality.” Hundreds of self-appointed parking attendants and car guards mill across the city, assisting motorists not only to find parking spaces but also to manoeuvre into the spot. Some of these empty spaces are not designated, and cars parked there are quickly whisked away by the metro police. Parking is free on the street level across the city centre, and many vehicles are usually parked from sunrise to sunset. Lisa Mthethwa said she got the shock of her life when she found her car missing from the spot she had parked it in Visagie Street. “I was not blocking anyone or anything. At least a caring municipality should make sure that motorists know that their cars have been impounded by the city. "I almost had a heart attack when I found that my new car had been removed,” she said. Metro police spokesperson Senior Superintendent Isaac Mahamba warned that motorists who park illegally will pay dearly. “We have zero tolerance for illegal parking across the CBD. "Those who leave their vehicles in the middle of the road and obstruct traffic, those driving vehicles that are not light duty vehicles, and those motorists who park in loading zones, those who park at the entrances of buildings, those who park at bus loading bays will have their cars impounded. "They will have to pay the amount of R1590 with an additional R64 per day for storage fees if the vehicle was not released on the same day,” Mahamba said. “This also applies to SAPS, the South African National Defence Force and the metro police members. No one is above the law. Their cars will be impounded as well, for that fee. We again advise members of the public not to be misled by car guards to park anywhere. Motorists must obey the law by parking legally.” Mahamba said if a motorist finds that their vehicle is missing after they parked in and around Pretoria, the first thing is to call and check with metro police before reporting it to the SAPS. “If may be that you parked your vehicle and when you come back you don’t find it. You may call metro police to inquire first before you report it at police station as missing,” said Mahamba. He rejected claims that the metro was on a money-making drive by towing the cars to its pound. “We are not on any money-making campaign. Rather, we make sure there’s law and order, in terms of the Road Traffic Act, and free flow of traffic in the CBD." - ANA