The All White Jazz and Soul Festival, which normally sees thousands of fans donned head to toe in white, will held take place on December 16 at Gold Rush Morula. For five years, the “All Whites” festival  was hosted at the Oberon Resort in Hartbeespoort. The musical concert has seen performances by artists such as American RnB crooner Kenny Lattimore and Zimbabwean legend Oliver Mtukudzi. Favourite home-grown musical giants such as Tshepo Tshola, soulful jazz and afro-pop singer Judith Sephuma, singers Ringo and Zonke, guitarist Salaelo Selota and the revered duo of Mafikizolo have featured. Co-founder and businesswoman Tiny Mashiloane said that in keeping with a decade of the event's existence this year was going to be bigger and better, with something for old and young to enjoy. The event will feature acts such as the Akanamali hitmaker Samthing Soweto, Wilson B Nkosi, Mafikizolo, Mamelodi-born pop singer Lady Zamar and house artist Dr Moruti. The line-up will also include popular local artists such as DJ Shoes, Lebo Sekgobela, Silly Bean, Joe Shirimane and many more. Co-founder Eugene Modise said the most important thing about the event was that it provided an opportunity for young and aspirant artists to be able to share the stage with prominent artists. Modise said: “It’s about having an event which has gone through years of ups and downs and finally come to maturity and can be called a brand. This is Tshwane’s own event that has been around for years.” He said it also sought to uplift the local community by offering young students free mentorship to learn the ins and outs of event management and other courses. “We know that obtaining a university degree is not enough and most students lack hands-on experience. "So in this way, we show them what it takes to host an event of this magnitude,” Modise said. Mashiloane said the music festival had previously drawn thousands of fans; this year would be no different.  However, the venue would only be able to accommodate between 7 000 to 10000 people. “Each year we have to turn people away  because we are packed beyond capacity. We advise music lovers to get their tickets early,” she said. Tickets go on sale from December 1 at Computicket.