ANC members on Monday disrupted mayor Solly Msimanga during his planned visit to the bereaved families. Chaotic scenes erupted when ANC supporters and community members threatened to prevent Msimanga from getting out off his official vehicle, parked outside the household where two of the victims stayed. Msimanga was scheduled to visit all the bereaved families at 10am. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  Outside the house of sisters Dimakatso and Tsholofelo Bopape on the dusty street of Soshanguve, the riotous group, some of them dressed in ANC T-shirts, approached the vehicle with Msimanga inside. Read: WATCH: Family speak after kids killed by high-mast lighting lamp that fell on them They were, however, kept at bay by metro police officers who fired rubber bullets at them. The officers were from the 29 “dangerous” force, welcomed two weeks ago by Msimanga from crowd management training in Thabazimbi in Limpopo. Amid the chaos, Msimanga was whisked away by his VIP drivers as community members ran helter-skelter from the flying rubber bullets. The metro police officers gave chase after the crowd, which fled for cover. One old man sustained injuries on the forehead and was rushed to a local clinic. After Msimanga’s departure, ANC Tshwane members, led by regional deputy chairperson and the party’s leader in the city council Mapiti Matsena, arrived at the house. Matsena denied that the move to disrupt Msimanga’s visit was orchestrated by the ANC. “It is not an ANC-orchestrated move. Members of the community are angry that this was purely a cable theft issue; it is not. “This is an issue that was raised by our councillors that the high-mast lights are not serviced. Our ward councillor said she reported this many times and nothing was done,” Matsena said. Msimanga had said, in the wake of the incident, that the deaths were the result of theft of cables from the high-mast light. Matsena said the ANC representatives were there to express their condolences to the family and help with funeral arrangements. Also read: ANC, Tshwane metro trade jibes as families mourn 5 kids killed by mast light Acting mayoral spokesperson Lindela Mashigo said Msimanga had planned a visit to the bereaved families to extend his heartfelt condolences in person. “Upon arrival at the house of one of the families, to express condolences to the parents who had just lost a child, the mayor was accosted by the mob, clearly being used to push a political agenda at a time when politics was the furthest thing from the mayor’s mind,” Mashigo said. It was deeply regrettable that, not for the first time, people considered community leaders chose to put their own narrow political interests before the genuine feelings of the families, he said. “It is now undeniably clear that the ANC in Tshwane has given up all pretence of caring about the people and is now using people’s pain to drive a political agenda. “This type of behaviour is condemned in the strongest terms. “The mayor again would like to extend his condolences to the bereaved families and say to them that the Msimanga administration in the City mourns with them,” Mashigo said. ANC spokesperson Teboho Joala said the deaths happened as a result of the negligence and incompetence of the “DA/EFF-led Metro municipality”. “This is a classic case of the unprepared, irresponsible and poor leadership on the part of DA/EFF government in the city,” Joala said. He claimed that Msimanga and his coalition partners deliberately re-assigned maintenance funds from townships, including Soshanguve, and prioritised the inner city. “We have learnt that the mayor has blamed cable theft and vandalism, indirectly blaming members of the community. “But our preliminary assessment tells us he is not telling the truth. He is hiding his ineptitude by telling more lies.” Joala said ANC councillors and members of the community from ward 27 had submitted countless petitions to the municipality demanding maintenance of various infrastructure. These ranged from open sewer manholes, streets lights, water leaks and potholes. “All these petitions have fallen on deaf ears,” he said. He called for security agencies and the justice cluster to investigate the incident and leave no stone unturned. “Those responsible for this disaster must face the full might of the law. We call on people and fellow residents to keep the families of the victims in their thoughts and prayers during this difficult period.” Meanwhile, the Rietgat Police said an inquest docket was opened after the tragic death of the children. Pretoria News