Over 2000 journalists from over 134 countries around the world travelled to Beijing to cover the week-long event. After decades of development of socialism with Chinese characteristics, China has emerged as a major developing country. Its per capita GDP has increased from $156 in 1978 to over $8000 in 2016, creating fundamental changes in China’s economic and social development. The congress observed and analysed these changes and made two key judgements: the principal contradiction of the Chinese society has evolved into one between unbalanced and inadequate development and the people’s ever-growing needs for a better life, whereas previously, it was one between the ever-growing material and cultural needs of the people and the backwardness of social production; the socialism with Chinese characteristics has entered a new era. Based on these two judgements, the congress has drawn up an impressive blueprint for the new era. By 2020, we will secure decisive success in building a moderately prosperous society in all respects, meaning as the world’s most populous country, China will completely eradicate poverty out of its entire 1.4billion population, leaving no one behind. It is estimated that by 2020, per capital GDP in China will reach $10000. For the period from 2021 to the middle of this century, the congress has drawn up a two-stage overall development plan. From 2021-35, we will basically realise socialist modernisation, with estimated per capita GDP at $30000, reaching the level of a moderately developed country. From 2036 to mid-21st century, we will develop China into a modern socialist country that is prosperous, strong, democratic, culturally advanced, harmonious and beautiful. It was the first time that we put “a beautiful China” in our development vision, demonstrating China’s aspiration for a better world and its wish to contribute an earnest part in our joint efforts to address climate change and environment protection. With such an ambitious development blueprint, the CPC well recognises the absolute necessity for both a guiding thought to unite the efforts of the Chinese people, and a strong and capable leadership to realise that vision. The congress has established the historical position of the Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era as a guiding thought and basic policy to unite and lead our party and people to uphold and develop socialism with Chinese characteristics. The congress then elected a new generation of CPC central leadership with General Secretary Xi Jinping at its core. This leadership, extremely competent - was tested through years of excellence in governance; elected through extremely strict voting process out of 89million CPC members; and has been closely examined time and again as having the highest integrity of holding office. Most importantly, this leadership is of unparalleled unity, with General Secretary Xi Jinping at its core, and united and guided by the Xi Jinping Thought. With this high level of unity, we get the maximum results when combining our strengths in action. The future prospect for China is indeed bright and encouraging. A people-centred approach focuses our efforts on the aspiration of the people to live a better life. As China marches confidently and comfortably towards its new development goals, we are constantly reminded of our motto “remain true to our original aspiration, keep our mission firmly in mind”. The “original aspiration and mission of Chinese Communists”, in the words of secretary-general Xi Jinping, is “to seek happiness for the Chinese people and rejuvenation for the Chinese nation”. Since its foundation, the CPC has maintained its fundamental purpose of serving people wholeheartedly. Upholding the firm belief that the CPC, a party of the people, for the people and by the people, is always committed to a people-centred approach, always puts the interest of the people first, and always strives to ensure the achievements of economic and social progress shared by the entire population instead of small invested interest groups only. Over the past five years, the CPC with Comrade Xi Jinping at its core has remained steadfast to the people-centred approach and solved many tough problems that were long on the agenda but never resolved and accomplished many things that were wanted but never got done, including anti-corruption, environment protection, food safety and winning the party strong support among Chinese people. The CPC will continue to commit itself to the people-centred approach because of its deep conviction that the people are makers of history. The CPC comes from the people and dare not forget the people. This deep conviction is what inspires the CPC to keep growing, prospering and moving from one success to another. As a responsible and major member of the international community, China always values its relations with the world and commits to making it a better place. The 19th CPC Congress has maintained this consistency and commitment, and has put forward our vision for the world in a new era: China will pursue a new type of international relations featuring mutual respect, fairness, justice and win-win co-operation and work with peoples of all countries to build a community with a shared future for mankind, which is an open, inclusive, clean and beautiful world that enjoys lasting peace, universal security and common prosperity. By mutual respect, China calls for mutual respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity, mutual respect for each other’s core interests and major concerns, mutual respect for the diversity of human civilisation and mutual respect for each other’s independent choice on social systems and development path. China is committed to a socialist path with Chinese characteristics. As we offer our respect to the independent choice by the people of other countries, China naturally looks forward to the same respect from other countries. By fairness and justice, China is committed to a stronger representation and bigger voice of developing countries in the UN and other multilateral forums. China will take a more active part in global governance, make a greater contribution to international development assistance, peacekeeping and security and join efforts with developing countries to bring about a more democratic international order to make the international governance regime more fair, just and reasonable. By win-win co-operation, China means to remain committed to the values of friendship, justice and shared interests, and to closely combine its development with the development of the world. China will continue to promote international co-operation on the Belt and Road initiative. To narrow the gap between the North and the South, China will increase assistance for developing countries, particularly the least developed countries. Opening up will remain China’s basic policy and we will continue our efforts for an open world economy, and make globalisation more open, inclusive, balanced and win-win. In our vision for a new world, China expresses its strong resolve to jointly build a world of lasting peace and universal security. It would require all countries to abandon the traditional international politics of zero-sum game and law of the jungle and resolutely reject any country to pursue “absolute security”. Moving forward, China will continue to uphold its fundamental foreign policy goal of preserving world peace and promoting common development. We are confident that China’s continued prosperity will offer to the world, particularly the developing countries, a new path and opportunities to modernisation and an answer to search for a better social system. Currently, the China-South Africa comprehensive strategic partnership maintains robust momentum with unprecedented height and warmth in strategic and political mutual trust. As two major emerging powers and important members of multilateral forums such as Brics and G20, China and South Africa have been playing increasingly important roles in promoting world peace and development and upholding the shared interests of all developing countries. China and South Africa enjoy strong economic complementarity. Situated in a prime location and boasting rich resources, sound infrastructure, a well-regulated market and sound legal system, South Africa is the African country that is the most deeply and substantively involved in linking with the Belt and Road initiative. China has the capital, technology, market, enterprises, talents and development experience. Both China and South Africa need and complement each other for co-operation and development. Next year will mark the 20th anniversary of China-South Africa diplomatic ties. China will take this important opportunity to work closely together with South Africa to promote co-operation in 10 priority areas including infrastructure, human resources, manufacturing and processing, agriculture, tourism, the marine economy, finance, security, people-to-people exchange and international co-operation. China is ready to work closely with our South African friends to make our relations more productive and more beneficial to our two peoples to make our relations a locomotive in China-Africa relations. Songtian is the ambassador of the People’s Republic of China to the Republic of South Africa