This was because the child had soiled her bed. “My wife was livid with Poppie,” her stepfather Kobus Koekemoer told the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, yesterday. But his wife Louisa Koekemoer - Poppie’s biological mother - claimed her husband hit the child against the kitchen cupboard. Her version of events were that “all hell broke loose” when her “ill-tempered” husband flung Poppie, 3, against the kitchen cupboard. The two are facing a charge of murder following the child’s death on October 25 last year. Poppie, whose body was covered in bruises, was declared dead on arrival at a Brits hospital. Kobus said he often gave Poppie and her brother hidings because they “were naughty”, but he denied killing her. On that final evening, the child was unsteady on her feet and went to bed. The next morning she tried to watch television with her brother, but she was sleepy, the mother said through her lawyer. Kobus went to the shops and returned late in the afternoon, she said. He found Poppie in front of the television and kicked her, she said. Louisa fetched the parcels from the car and when she returned, she saw her husband busy with Poppie in the bathroom. She found Poppie on the floor the child had stopped breathing. But Kobus had a different story. He said that the day Poppie died had started normally, with the mother waking the children up. The mother was unhappy with Poppie, who was potty training at the time, as the child had soiled her bed. The children  went to the lounge, but Louisa had sent Poppie back to her bedroom with her breakfast as punishment. “My wife went to fetch her dish and I just heard a terrible noise from the bedroom. I heard her shouting at Poppie ‘you s**t on your bed’. Next thing I saw Poppie come flying out of the room on all fours. She hit her head against the wall and when she tried to get up, she lost her balance and ran into the wall.” Kobus said his wife grabbed the child by the arm and threw her into the bath before she hosed her down. He claimed he then left for the shops and only returned later that afternoon. “When I got back I saw Poppie lying in the kitchen where the trashcan was supposed to be. I asked my wife what was going on and she said Poppie was 'playing dead again as she seeked (sic) attention'.” Kobus said he went outside but his wife later called him to tell him Poppie was not breathing. “I rushed inside and shook her, but she did not wake up. I placed her in the bath and threw water over her. When she did not wake up, my wife and I applied CPR, but we eventually gave up.” He then rushed her to hospital, where he claimed he frantically ran around, crying and screaming for someone to assist the child. A doctor eventually declared the child dead. Kobus said his wife didn't go into the hospital, but stood next to the car, where he had to deliver the “sad” news to her. Questioned in court as to how Poppie had suffered the bruises across her body, Kobus offered various explanations. Apart from blaming his wife, he also said the children used to play a game in the back of the bakkie where they hit and shoved each other. He also said they were visiting his brother a few days prior to her death, where the other children played roughly with Poppie. Asked about the complaints against him and his wife that they were abusing the children while they were living in Orania, Kobus blamed it on the children being injured at school. He said they had left Orania as there was a vendetta against them and social services would not leave them alone. He said he at first gave “the naughty Poppie” and her brother hidings with his hand, but they laughed at him. He then bought a “paplepel” (porridge spoon) and hit them with it. “You don’t know those kids; they are tough and did not just cry,” he told the court. Kobus claimed that after complaints were levelled against him for abusing the children, he left the chastising up to his wife. Pictures of Poppie’s lifeless body handed to court depicted a bleak picture of an emaciated, bruised child with hair cut to her skull. It was a far cry from the picture of the blonde haired, blue eyed child which family members at court wore pinned to their clothes. (Proceeding)