The two metro police trainees were kicked out of training in 2014 because they refused to cut their hair. They turned to court in June 2014 and obtained an order that they immediately be reintegrated. Suzanne Terry and Elizna von Mollendorff, supported by the Independent Municipal and Allied Trade Union (Imatu), have been in and out of the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, over the years to fulfil their dreams of becoming metro cops. They even launched an application that the City take them back within seven days of a court order, failing which the city manager should be jailed or fined, or both. Pieter de Beer of Imatu stated, in court papers, that in 2014 Acting Judge Louis Vorster had ordered that the pair be reinstated immediately. But the City, in opposing the application at the time, said the horse had already bolted, as the specific training programme the two were on had been completed. During an earlier application, metro police executive director Console Tleane had said the judge ordered they be readmitted to the programme they had been enrolled in - not that a new training programme be created for them or that they be enrolled in another one. The programme the two had participated in prior to the termination of their training had been completed and no longer existed, he said. Thus, it was not possible to reintegrate them into that programme. Terry and Von Mollendorf grabbed news headlines when they were booted out of the programme. They turned to court for an urgent order that they be allowed back into the programme to be trained as metro police officers. When they reported for training they had medium-length hair. They were instructed at the parade ground on the third day of the programme to there and then cut their hair as short “as that of men”. They refused and an instructor shouted at them that it was not up to them. It was claimed she grabbed them violently and cut their hair on the parade ground, cutting Von Mollendorff’s finger with the scissors. The pair said they never gave the instructor permission to cut their hair, especially in such a violent manner. When the judge ordered that they be allowed to return to the programme, they went back to the training college, only to be told to leave three days later. Again they turned to court to hold the council in contempt of court and again the court said they must be returned to the programme. Again they were told to leave as the council said it wanted to apply for the decision to be rescinded. When this application failed, the City gave notice that it was going to appeal against the order. That failed. Meanwhile, the two women were at home as they were denied access to the college. The pair this week turned back to court where the City was once again found to be in contempt of the court order. The City must immediately reintegrate the pair into the programme and must by February 15 next year file a progress report with the court, detailing the steps it had taken to implement the training agreement it had reached with the pair in 2014, before they were booted, it was ruled.