During the memorial service of the renowned referee - who died at age 63 - at Crawford Preparatory School yesterday, pupils spoke of how their beloved former principal had embedded a footprint in their school that would never be replaced. Grade 7 pupils Lailah Moonasan and IIham Ismail said McLeod was always there for all of them in any sports activities they took part in, or even when they just wanted to talk to him. Lailah said: “He’s never been a principal of Crawford Prep; he was the father. His door was always open, as was his heart; his heart that encompassed so much love for every single one of us.” Ilham added: “We were number one to our parents and therefore we were number one in his heart. His protective shield will forever be around the school,” Advtech Group’s schools division head, Alex Isaakidis, said McLeod had always been hands-on with the children and knew each child by name. “It was always a mission to go through the school with him, because all the kids would want to greet and hug him, and he always made a point to stop for each and everyone of them,” Isaakidis said. South African Football Association chief executive Dennis Mumble said he wanted to take the opportunity on behalf of the 3 million supporters and football players to apologise to McLeod’s family for all the time they took him away from them. Mumble said the association wanted to thank his family for letting them share him. He said he strongly believed McLeod existed in other universes, as he always gave his very best in everything he did. Mumble said: “He applied himself in such a way to establish a standard that everyone behind him would want to emulate. I don’t think the players he often gave red cards to held a grudge against him. How I wish he took the whistle one more time for him to continue being with us.” Support staff and the driver at the school, Lukas Kgopane, said he remembered an incident where he was constantly chased away by police while waiting to collect McLeod from the airport. Kgopane said he kept driving around and kept telling the officers he was waiting for his boss. When McLeod finally arrived, Kgopane said the police immediately left to speak to him and even ended up apologising to him. His wife, Judy, said she was comforted by everyone’s words, especially those of the children as she knew how much he loved them. “I know that he loved what he did and we spent 34 wonderful years together. He will be watching over me and the kids,” she said. Since McLeod’s death on Thursday following a short illness, tributes have poured in from fans, the football fraternity and on social media. The renowned referee’s last match was as a match commissioner for the Limpopo derby between Black Leopards and newcomers Tshakhuma Tsha Madzivhandila at Thohoyandou Stadium on October 15. 