The mayor said this would see the fair and equitable recruitment of EPWP work opportunities so that the burden of poverty, inequality and unemployment may be alleviated to some measure. “We are pleased at these numbers for just day one as this demonstrates that our residents are heeding our call to help us help them take hold of work opportunities to liberate themselves from the throes of poverty and unemployment,” Msimanga said. “Most of our 68 registration venues across all the seven regions of the City were flooded with potential beneficiaries, who expressed a keen interest to join hands with the DA-led administration to make Tshwane a better place to live in. “We experienced logistical hiccups at some of the registration venues, but we are confident that, from today onwards, until the close of registration this Friday, it would be all systems go and the registration process is expected to proceed smoothly.” Msimanga said Sunday's disruption at the final day of the #EPWPRoadShow in Mabopane, by a small group of politically-motivated individuals, was disappointing but unsurprising. “Nevertheless we are pleased that is was members of the community themselves who dealt with the disrupters,” he stated. The reformed EPWP system that was passed by council at its September ordinary sitting. Msimanga said the passing of this EPWP recruitment policy framework would ensure the City employed workers on a temporary or contract basis, with the intention of transferring skills and providing the much-needed income. He said the programme was marred by nepotism, cronyism and some appointments were made on the basis of political affiliation. The central database will be used by the City of Tshwane to store information on interested unemployed city residents. The process of appointing beneficiaries from the central database will occur by way of random selection, which is to be achieved either by a manual or electronic lottery. Registration is open to members of households whose household head has less than a primary school education and have less than one full-time person earning an income, or where subsistence agriculture is the source of income. Those who rely on social grants, including disability grants, may also apply. Registration is done at various venues, across all the seven regions, between 8am and 4pm. The applicant must be unemployed at the time of registration, a South African citizen and a resident of Tshwane, be of a legal employable age and produce a certified copy of their ID, birth certificate, driver's licence or affidavit or proof of application for an ID. They must produce proof of residence and meet the physical requirements and specifications for the job opportunity. Pretoria News