Schoolchildren, families and members of the community could not hold back their tears during the joint funeral of Dimpho Bopape, 6, Boikhutso Bopape, 11, Lethabo Matibako, 9, Makanu Khoza, 9, and Kearabilwe Baloyi, 11. The five were playing under an unstable high-mast light structure a week ago when the lighting ring dislodged and came crashing down on them. Four of the children died on the scene and the fifth died in hospital. The other two children were seriously injured and are still recovering in hospital. Mourners started to gather at the Soshanguve Community Hall at about 7am. However, the service got off to a rowdy start when ANC and EFF members clashed regarding the seating arrangements and who should be allowed into the hall. They later smoked the peace pipe and settled down to listen to heartfelt and inspiring tales of the children. Supporting the family were numerous high-profile personalities, including Gauteng Premier David Makhura, acting mayor and MMC Cilliers Brink, ANC Tshwane regional chairperson Kgosientso Ramokgopa and various other MMCs and councillors. In his address, Makhura tore into the City and said the metro should take responsibility for the deaths. “The City must be frank and open and take accountability. The ANC is not running the City so you can’t blame the party,” he said. “The administration must make sure that this never occurs again under its watch,” he said, to applause from the packed hall. Makhura added that although death was an inevitable part of life, the children shouldn’t  have died in that manner - almost suggesting that it could have been avoided. Brink pleaded that the funeral not be used to gain political points, but rather be a learning curve. Last Monday, mayor Solly Msimanga was chased away by the community when he tried to meet the families. ANC leader in the city council Mapiti Matsena then visited the families after Msimanga had left the area. Msimanga was about to step out of his official car when angry people threatened to throw stones at him. “There has to be answers in the wake of this tragedy. We have to make sure that this does not happen again; even if it is to take the issue of maintenance of our infrastructure as a matter of life and death because indeed it is,” he said. The incident has been reported to police and an inquest docket opened. In a message directed to the City, a representative of the Matibako family said it needed to wake up. “I hope this is the last tragedy of this nature. Please clean up your house. We don’t want other families to experience what we went through,” he said. Titus Baloyi, representing the family of Kearabilwe, told mourners that the families had accepted the loss although it was difficult to cope with. “The cruelty of death has finally caught up with these young people,” he said. Hymns and poems lightened up the atmosphere. But the jovial spirit again returned to dull when the victims reached their final resting place at a nearby cemetery. Tears from family and friends flowed uncontrollably as they threw flowers into the graves. Meanwhile, the City said the light would be removed.