Chief Justice David Maraga said all six judges dismissed the two legal challenges to the vote. The opposition coalition Nasa insisted the government was illegitimate. Kenyatta’s main challenger, Nasa’s Raila Odinga, said in a statement by his adviser Salim Lone that the ruling “did not come as a surprise” and said “it was a decision taken under duress”. “We in Nasa had repeatedly declared before this Supreme Court ruling that we consider this government to be illegitimate and do not recognise it. This position has not been changed by the court ruling,” the statement said. It referred to security concerns raised by the opposition about the judges after one of their bodyguards was shot the day before the court was to deliberate on an 11th-hour request to delay last month’s election. The chief justice said at the time police had “enhanced” security after the shooting. The court could not be reached yesterday to comment on Nasa’s allegation. Yesterday’s ruling clears the way for Kenyatta’s swearing-in next Tuesday, but it is unlikely to end the worst political crisis in East Africa’s most developed economy in a decade. Residents in the western city of Kisumu, where Odinga has strong backing, barricaded roads in protest at the court’s decision, and police later fired in the air to disperse them, according to a witness. Odinga had called for a “National Resistance Movement” after Kenyatta’s victory last month. Kenyatta had said he wouldn't engage in dialogue with the opposition until “constitutional options” had been exhausted. The prolonged election process has disrupted the economy and forced the government to cut its growth forecast. Rights groups say at least 66 people died in bloodshed surrounding the votes in August and October. The petitioners had argued that the outcome be voided because the election board did not seek fresh nominations after the August 8 poll was invalidated, and because the vote was not held in each of the 291 constituencies. The repeat election on October 26 had been ordered by the Supreme Court after it nullified results of the August election, citing irregularities in the tallying of votes - an unprecedented move on the 
continent. The opposition boycotted the poll, which Kenyatta won with 98% of the vote. Some opposition supporters mobilised to prevent polls from opening in the west of the country. “The court has unanimously determined that the petitions are not merited,” Maraga said. “As a consequence, the presidential election of 26th of October is hereby upheld.” The court said it would issue a full judgment within 21 days. The decision was met with applause in the courtroom from lawyers for the election commission and Kenyatta. The commission said the ruling affirmed its “resolve and deliberate efforts to conduct free, fair and credible elections”. There was no immediate reaction from Kenyatta. Kenya, a US ally in the fight against Islamists and a trade gateway to East Africa, has a history of disputed elections. A row over a 2007 poll, which Odinga challenged after being declared loser, was followed by weeks of ethnic bloodshed that killed more than 1200 people. Police said on Sunday that at least four people had been killed in a Nairobi opposition stronghold. Odinga accused the government of being behind the killings, which followed at least five deaths last Friday as police tried to disperse opposition supporters. Deputy President William Ruto said action would be taken against those inciting violence. Odinga put the death toll in violence since he returned to Nairobi on Friday from an overseas trip at 31. The police tally was nine.  - Reuters