Immediately, and predictably so, the incident got the round the clock coverage it deserved. Some in the US were watching Jane the Virgin when a traumatic ticker appeared at the bottom of the screen alerting them of the attack. Since then, the stories of 14-year-old Nell Jones who died at the concert, or 50-year-old Jane Tweddle-Taylor, who came to pick up a friend's daughter and died when she was hit by shrapnel, have spawned outrage at the actions of the attacker, identified as of now as one Salman Ramadan Abedi. A day or two later, 106 civilians, including 42 children, were killed in US strikes in eastern Syria. Of course, little coverage was afforded to these sons and daughters of “terrorists”, many of whom had escaped Islamic State-held Raqqa only to find themselves bombed by “the good guys”. I am not going to bemoan the lack of interest in the murder of Syrians, or Iraqis; we are squarely used to the asymmetrical care for human life. This is unlikely to change soon, given that most of us still believe that the UK, Europe and the US is where quality of life happens. These attacks take place “elsewhere”, where no one has a name, life is meant to be short, not sweet; a marshland where fathers don’t mind losing their young daughters to drones, and where mothers give birth to suicide bombers. Given our acceptance that some lives matter more, we are entitled to expect that the coverage itself would have a tinge of nuance. This war on terror hackery has been going on since 9/11. Surely, by now, journalists know what questions to ask and experts, well, surely, know what not to say? Well, I’d be damned. The conversation has barely moved an inch since the Twin Towers fell with the reverberations of “why do they hate us”. First, the insistence on focusing on the attacker’s “national” background. He was a British citizen, but the focus was on his Libyan ancestry, to assert that this killer was an outsider. Then, once more, the discussion revolves around his faith. “Was he a good Muslim, or a bad Muslim? Was he one of those mosque-going Muslims, or had he been estranged from the community? Did he pray and read the Qur’an regularly or was he one of those - the pot-smoking, blonde-banging brown punks who had recently gone 'back' to his faith and hope for virgins in paradise?” In other words, what role did Islam play in radicalising the young man, and, what can we do to stop this menace? It is remarkable that analysts can talk about “faith” outside the toxic, militarised masculinity that gives birth to almost each and every one of these mass killers - Muslim origin or not. To be sure, Salman has a lot in common with Omar Mateen, the man who murdered 49 in a gay nightclub in Orlando last June. But he also has a lot in common with Adam Lanza who marched into a school in Connecticut in 2012 with a semi-automatic assault rifle and pistols and shot dead 26 people, including 20 pupils. Likewise, Abedi is more like Anders Breivik, the white supremacist who killed 34 people in Norway in 2011 or Craig Stephen Hicks, who shot three Muslims dead in Chapel Hill in North Carolina in 2015. Last week, a man stabbed two other men to death after they stood up to him for threatening a Muslim girl and her friend on a train in Oregon. Salman is part of his ilk, too. Salman, Omar, Anders, Adam, Craig, Dylan. They are all products of alienation and superb grievance, spectacular glitches in the modern matrix. And yet none of the white men mentioned here were seen as “influenced” by their faith or national origin. They were seen as misfits, mentally unstable, and unhinged. Why not, at this stage - after all the attacks in London, Paris, Madrid - talk about what draws these killers to each other? It is a travesty, that each time these attacks take place, we pretend that they are the result of a religious sect out to destroy the fruits of Western civilisation. This is of course, an easy way to explain the world and keeps dissent in check and allows manufacturers of weapons to get their bonuses every year. Men of all religions, cultures and ethnicities, feel that it is their right to commit mass murder, as part of a larger quest to “correct” a personal existential crisis or at times, mediated through a political grievance. It has nothing to do with one’s faith, and to watch this charade play each time has left me gagging. Why not interrogate the failings of our “ liberal, secular societies”, and ask: why do people, be it Muslim, Christian, Hindu, white supremacist, feel the need to rebel so violently against the system? Why is the background - racial, national, religious - still so important, given all we know about alienation and isolation? Again, why is it that politicians are allowed to spew hate as reasonable fixes to the political, social and economic failures of the current world order? Each time we give some victims far more airtime than others, link background to culpability and overemphasise a mindless adherence to faith and trees in the sky, we perpetuate the very Reagan, Bush, Trump way of seeing the world in black and white, of good versus evil, when the truth is often, and very much within. Azad Essa is a journalist at Al Jazeera and co-founding editor of The Daily Vox