Q: My boss, who
is about 60, is so disorganised that I wonder if he has early-onset dementia.
He can't remember what assignments he's given, what conversations he's had or
what deadlines were agreed upon. He'll insist he never received a document he
asked for and look truly confused if you offer proof you sent it. He'll tell
you to do something and then insist to the point of rage that he did not tell
you to do it.  When I started
working for him almost a year ago, I thought he was a jerk. But after spending
time with an uncle with Alzheimer's, I noticed similarities: anger masking
basic confusion, repeated requests and zero retention. It seems to be
an open secret that my boss is incapable of performing his duties. Most of us
just work around him. He's been asked by management to be more accountable,
organized and transparent, and I suspect he's going to be fired. I'm also
experiencing compassion fatigue. It's maddening working for this guy. Should I
say anything about my suspicions about his health? A: My heart is
breaking for your boss - but that's easy to say when I'm not on the receiving
end of his tirades. Whether and how
you say anything to HR or management depends on your motives. There's no point
telling them your boss is failing at his job; they already know - although your
input might help them build a case to terminate him. However, if your
productivity is suffering because of him, employment lawyer Amy Epstein Gluck
of FisherBroyles points out that documenting incidents might help protect your
performance record. If you want to alert management about a possible medical
cause, Epstein Gluck recommends general terms - "I'm having trouble doing
my job because of Boss' forgetfulness, but I'm also concerned it might be due
to a health problem beyond his control." Read also: Ad agency boss quits after employee's 'death by overwork' When dealing
with your boss, HR absolutely should not "play doctor," says Declan
Leonard of business law firm Berenzweig Leonard. While your armchair diagnosis
may be on the money, the employer must focus on an employee's observable
behavior and performance, not speculate about medical causes. If your boss
tells the employer he has a medical impairment, then under the Americans With
Disabilities Act he must be granted reasonable accommodations - digital
reminders? a personal scheduler? - to perform his essential job functions. But
the ADA offers your boss no protection if he's unable to perform his essential
job duties with or without accommodations. Of course,
although it has the right to terminate him for failing to perform those duties,
management may choose to transition your boss to a different role so he can
continue to have access to health care and other employer-provided resources.
Legal obligations aside, there's always room for compassion. WASHINGTON POST