South Africa is considered one of the most dangerous places for a child to grow up. As South Africans we should hang our collective heads in shame for the unsafe conditions confronting our children daily. It is of grave concern to National Professional Teachers' Organisation of SA (Naptosa) members that the plight of children is so neglected. Schools are a safe haven for many children. It is the only place they can escape from abuse, neglect and hunger. And it is here that educators not only provide the children with quality education, often under the most dire of circumstances, but have to confront the emotional and psychological abuses thrust on these young minds and bodies every day. Simply put, our children are not safe, even at our schools. And it is with dismay that we note the Western Cape Provincial Education Department’s attempt to shift the responsibility of protecting the safety of our children at schools to the institutions themselves. How must schools add this burden to their already strained budgets? No. Naptosa does not accept the buck being passed to our schools. It is tragic for a cabinet colleague of yours to spend millions of rands on the safety of her own children, while millions of our country’s children remain unsafe every day. The lack of safe, organised school transport condemns thousands of children to walk to school. Not only do they have to fear for their lives from possible abduction for a range of nefarious motives such as human trafficking, “muti-killings” and human depravity, but drivers of trucks, taxis and cars often kill these children without ever being brought to book. The distances our children have to trudge every day means that they arrive at school exhausted. When will there be safe national scholar transport for the safety and protection of our children? This is a necessity and not an option. We need action now! Naptosa notices the number of mud schools that have been replaced with bricks and solid structures, and we congratulate you on your drive to ensure safer buildings in which our children may learn. But this is not enough! There are still far too many schools built with unsafe materials. And how can we build walls for classrooms but not provide safe and proper ablutions facilities? How many of our country’s children have to die, or fall ill in these sub-humane facilities before anything is done about their safety? The reported cases of predators and learner-on-learner sexual assaults at our schools grow by the week. This cannot be allowed to continue. You need to take decisive and swift action in dealing with these cases. While highlighting the need for safety, Naptosa wishes to acknowledge the legion of teachers, parents, police and carers who daily shield, protect and nurture our children. Lastly, Naptosa commends the minister's efforts to alleviate poverty through feeding schemes in our schools. However, have you considered the fast approaching three-week long winter holiday on our doorstep? What provisions exist for the continued nurturing of vital brain development that can only grow through continued sustenance? From the thousands of Naptosa educators Naptosa president: Nkosipendule Ntantala