They reluctantly walked to where the bodies had been found, circling the dark patch of ashes, where there were condoms and blood. They intently looked for clues or anything that could give them an idea of the identities of the victims  and anything that could point to them being their relatives who went missing on Sunday evening. But police spokesperson Lieutenant Kay Makhubela explained to them that the only way to verify the identities to see if they were family members were DNA tests. “The bodies are burnt beyond recognition, and there is nothing that police can work on except for DNA test,” he said. “We are waiting for forensics to identify the gender and the age of the deceased,” he said. They told the police that they feared the three burnt bodies, discovered in an open field in Centurion, were that of their loved ones. The gruesome find, of three bound, gagged and burnt bodies, was made by the security personnel of a neighbouring housing estate. The Copperleaf Golf Estate workers went to the field to investigate a veld fire at about 8am and upon closer inspection saw the three bodies. They called paramedics. When they got there they identified that it was three bodies - of two adults and a child - who appeared to have been tied up and burnt to death. “When we heard that three burnt bodies had been discovered in Centurion, we already had an idea that something may have happened,” said Fuad Patel. Three family members, he said, a 56-year-old man and two women aged 54 and 22, were kidnapped from their home in Northcliff on Sunday evening. The kidnappers also fled with the family's Mercedes-Benz. “When I heard that three bodies were discovered in a field I nearly fainted,” he said. “What keeps me hopeful is that my missing cousin’s cellphone is still on and ringing,” he added. Police at the scene said they were treating the deaths as suspicious, and urged anyone with information to come forward to assist in the investigation. “At the moment, we do not have any idea. We don’t know who they are but we are appealing to anyone who might have any information to come forward. "Police are appealing to anyone with information following the discovery of the three bodies,” Makhubela said. When paramedics arrived at the scene of the killing, they found the bodies already burnt beyond recognition. “All three patients had already succumbed to their injuries,” ER 24 paramedics said. ER24’s Russel Meiring said: “Nothing could be done for them and they were declared dead on the scene.” The paramedics could see that the bodies had been bound, gagged and burnt, he said, but added that the actual cause of death would be determined by a post mortem and a law enforcement investigation. Police and local forensic personnel were at the scene soon after the bodies were found, cordoning the area off and starting their investigation. Makhubela said the bodies were burnt so much that the only visible thing at the scene was one pair of legs. Numerous  packets of used condoms were around the scene. Splatters of blood were visible, along with burnt tyres. Patel said he would brace himself for anything today when he will go  to the mortuary to identify the bodies. Some community members were reeling in shock at the news of the grisly find. “Whoever was out there, whoever did this, you don’t want them back on the streets,” said Michelle Naude. “But nothing at this point is going to bring them back.” Helen Mazibuko said: “We are shocked to say the least. We are saddened that such a heinous crime has been committed. We are hoping that police will intensify their investigation.” Renee Manning said: "What is happening to this world?"