Hong Kong - China’s
Yanzhou Coal Mining is holding fire on a counter offer for Rio Tinto Group’s
Australian coal assets as it waits to hear whether Glencore has succeeded in
trumping the deal it struck six months ago. Glencore Chief Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg has
submitted a proposal to buy Rio’s Coal & Allied unit in New South Wales for at least $2.55 billion,
the Baar, Switzerland-based producer and trader said Friday in a
statement. Yanzhou’s Yancoal Australia
unit in January offered $2.45 billion for the business, including an initial
$1.95 billion cash payment and $500 million in annual installments of $100 million
following completion. “If Rio Tinto determines that the Glencore proposal is a
superior proposal, Yancoal will have a right to match or better that proposal,”
Yanzhou said in a Hong Kong exchange filing
Sunday. A further announcement will be made by the company “if it receives
notification from Rio Tinto in relation to whether the Glencore proposal
constitutes a superior proposal,” it said. Read also: SA's #nuclear ambitions scuppered Rio’s board and management
will give the Glencore proposal “appropriate consideration and respond in due
course,” the company said in a statement Friday. A Rio
spokesman on Monday declined to comment further. Yanzhou has received outbound investment approval from China’s
National Development and Reform Commission and the Ministry of Commerce as well
as merger clearance from the nation’s Anti-Monopoly Bureau, it said. The
company expects to receive any outstanding approvals by the end of June,
according to the statement. “The Glencore decision puts Rio Tinto in a very difficult
situation,” said Helen Lau, a Hong Kong-based analyst with Argonaut Securities
(Asia) Ltd. “It’s hard for the board to reject a higher offer, with better
terms, but at the same time, it could be even more difficult to reject Yanzhou
Coal, which has got almost all government clearance for the deal.” If Glencore’s bid succeeds, it would also seek to buy
Mitsubishi Corp.’s stakes in two coal ventures in the same area for $920
million. Glencore would sell at least $1.5 billion in assets to mitigate the
cost, it said in Friday’s statement. Hunter Valley The Rio coal operations are adjacent to existing Glencore
mines in Australia’s Hunter Valley,
and would take Glencore’s production capacity there to 81 million metric tons a
year. In 2014, Glencore and Rio considered
merging their coal businesses. “Yancoal has to wait and watch, but also has to carefully
calculate whether a higher bid could justify the purchase to its own
shareholders,” Lau said. “A good asset at the current price may not be a good
one with another 10 percent premium. They have to make sure state investment is
spent carefully and soundly on high-quality assets.” Glencore’s bid for the coal assets comes just weeks after it
expressed interest in a combination with grain trader Bunge Ltd. as Glasenberg
steps up expansion efforts following a painful commodities downturn in which it
was forced to sell assets and cut costs. The trader has already returned to deal making. In December,
it teamed up with shareholder Qatar Investment Authority to buy almost 20
percent of Russian oil producer Rosneft PJSC. Glencore also agreed to a $960
million Congo
mining deal in February. There is no certainty that any transaction will be
concluded, Glencore said Friday, adding that the deal would be funded from
existing cash and committed facilities. Glencore will only be bound once a
binding share purchase agreement is concluded with Rio Tinto. The proposal
expires if a binding purchase agreement hasn’t been executed by June 26.Peter
Grauer, the chairman of Bloomberg, is a senior independent non-executive director
at Glencore. BLOOMBERG 