The City of Tshwane, as a service provider, is responsible for providing residents with various practical and social services which cut across their basic necessities - some must-haves and a few services which may be considered luxuries. Not least among what the city must absolutely make available is primary health care, which is available at the various clinics, community health care centres and hospitals of varying sizes scattered across the capital. Residents can also lay claim to the city service centres which have a variety of offerings ranging from service queries and payments to reporting problems and requests for intervention, and all else generally required to get in touch with the city as service provider. The Tshwane licensing centres are a key component of these provisions, as are water and lights, refuse collection, customer service offices to which people should be able to report - and get a response - and public transport. There must be channels for people to alert the city to water leaks, lack of trash collection, street and traffic lights that are out of order, noisy neighbours and the like. But, over the years many of these offices have failed to provide on the promises made by mayors and councillors elected to represent us and, while the grumble from residents has grown louder, there has been little meaningful intervention. The advent of social media has made the complaints - of shoddy services and slow responses - much easier to make, to note and keep track of, and when the city fails to pick up on and resolve issues, there is no escaping it on the internet. While some of the problems, such as health services and transport, predominantly affect poorer residents who cannot afford medical aid and private care, the ongoing glitches at the licensing departments affect those who have private vehicles and taxis. These are the offices where drivers go for their own licence needs, including learner and driver's licence bookings and tests, eye tests, the renewal of licences, testing vehicles, collections and so on. The city’s main licensing centre in Centurion has been besieged by technical glitches, which left staff unable to provide services for up to two weeks at a time. Customers arrived to long queues and no signs that they would be helped. On other days the premises were bereft of people and staff sat out in the sun unable to work, sending residents on a goose chase to find service elsewhere. Although the problem went on for days little effort was made to inform people not to come and some residents who spoke to the Pretoria News at the time told how they had come in day after day in the hope of being assisted, each time finding that there was still no service available. They complained of time spent away from work and other ventures; said spoke of the money spent petrol and time to get to the testing centre - only to wait for hours or be sent elsewhere at further cost. But staff  seemed lost to the reasons to give to their customers, only adding to the confusion. Or is it that they are tired of explaining? In April the Centurion centre put signs up to tell residents the systems were down, blaming cable theft, vandalism of a sub-station, a fault with a Telkom line, problems with the eNatis system, which had been taken over by the Department of Transport, etc. A simple posting on their social media pages could have made so much difference, said a businessman, who had queued from 8 one morning, only becoming aware of the issues just before 12. It was up to a security guard to advise them of the problem. And he was not alone. Many others had similar tales to share of how angry and despondent they were left feeling at poor service. Services like IDs at the Department of Home Affairs, clinics and other government services have received mixed reaction, with some raving about efficiency while others talk of long waits in queues that feel like they are standing still. While the government has arguably of the best medical professionals in the country, those needing them continually struggle to reach them. Great doctors, specialist nurses and experts in diseases which afflict us sit in rooms in the city’s tertiary and regional facilities or in private practice. The story of health often starts with ailing people leaving home at the crack of dawn -  sick, old and some with small children. They queue at clinics from early in the morning, going through various stages of collecting numbers, filling in forms, waiting for files to be fetched, being seen by sisters and waiting to be examined. If lucky enough to get medical attention that day, they then move to the pharmacy where they can wait many more hours for their medication. This was my depressing experience on Friday, when I waited hours to be assisted at a clinic, though when I did get service it was good. The big question is: who is accountable? How can a health facility keep people waiting and waiting for attention? Must it be a norm for those in need to struggle as hard as they do for basic  services? What must be done by local government structures to fast-track services and allow people to get on with their lives despite being in need? Who sits where with the key to turn it and ring in the changes?