Not only are they mourning her senseless killing, but somewhere out here, someone has their house keys and her handbag taken after she was killed and dumped in Kameeldrift. The family yesterday said they could not understand the attack on the woman they described as a peacemaker; nor could they understand how she ended up in Kameeldrift having left home for work in the city centre that morning. That a man driving a Quantum was arrested soon after the discovery of her bullet-ridden body pushed them further into fear. “We do not know why the person would have killed her; could he or they come for the rest of us?” her older sister Zandile Mkhwanazi said. The mother of 22-year-old Alvin Maibelo left home for work very early last Wednesday morning, but did not reach her destination. She had the office keys of the practice she worked at as a dental assistant. Speaking to the Pretoria News, her family said they initially wondered if she had been kidnapped on her way to work after they learnt she did not arrive. Her son said she had left for work as she did daily. “I saw my mom before she left at around 5.30am that morning and she was her normal self,” he said. He said he went to the taxi rank where she would have taken a taxi and asked around, but no one had  seen her. “Taxi drivers said they had seen her the previous day,” he said. The family went to the police station and opened a missing person’s case, and also got an affidavit allowing them to look into her bank account. “We wanted to see if there was any activity and where it was, to give us a clue to location,” Mkhwanazi explained. But there was nothing. Her husband, Freddy, said he had left work immediately, hoping to start searching for her. The family said they could not sleep that evening, keeping their eye on the door and hoping she would walk in. The following morning they saw a Pretoria News report of a body of a woman found on a Kameeldrift smallholding. “We just knew it had to be her,” said Mkhwanazi. Farmworkers on their way to work stumbled across the body on the side of the road. There were gunshot wounds on the side of her neck and back, almost near her spinal cord. Mkhwanazi said although the police had arrested a suspect, they hadn't seen him yet and did not know if it was someone they knew, or if it was the murderer. The 43-year-old-man was arrested in Pretoria a day after the gruesome find. Her heartbroken husband said he was still in disbelief at the loss of the love of his life. Struggling to hold back his emotions, he was at a loss for words when he recalled being called in to identify the body. “We fear for our lives, especially because they have the house keys and can easily come here and shoot the whole family. We do not know why they shot her in the first place,” Mkhwanazi said. Police spokesperson Captain Mavela Masondo said they had assembled a team of detectives to search for the perpetrators. “The search led the police to Pretoria Central where the suspect was arrested. “Police seized a firearm and impounded a Quantum believed to have been used during the commission of the crime,” he said. The police or family did not confirm a link with the recent spate of rapes of women abducted by taxi drivers. Women in Joburg had told of horror taxi rides in Quantum taxis, where drivers, in some instances with accomplices, abducted, robbed and raped their passengers. The government and the Soul City Institute for Social Justice have stepped in and launched a #SafeTaxisNow campaign in response to the taxi rape cases. They called on taxi operators to act responsibly. Gauteng has been hit by rising numbers of women who disappear and are found dead.