Last week, during a panel discussion on the beef ban imposed through the back door by the central government, the channel’s anchor asked a ruling party representative to leave the programme for being boorish. A few days later, India’s corruption investigation agency, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), knocked on the door of its editor and promoter, Dr Prannoy Roy, ostensibly to probe a loan default. A raid at NDTV was rumoured for a while, but no one really thought the BJP government would dare do it. After all, the party wore its aggressive opposition to the internal emergency that the Congress government had imposed in 1975 as a badge of honour. Now it seems it was a different party. The manner in which the Modi government has gone about controlling the narrative of the media through discreet threats and blandishments made it clear it would not entertain any dissent or criticism against the prime minister. Methodically the opposition voices were drowned out in the din created by the faithful about who is a nationalist. Whoever demurred was branded as “anti-national” and asked to migrate to Pakistan. NDTV, like many other liberal media voices, was not hysterical or demanded a black eye to Pakistan every time there was a terror attack in Kashmir or Punjab. For this display of “weakness” they were called “anti-national and pro-Pakistani”. On other issues where the government claimed success - like in the case of demonetisation of high currency notes and the “Clean India” campaign, or the country’s questionable GDP growth, the channel displayed scepticism and gaps in the government version. NDTV audience ratings or TRP are considered to be lower than the market leader, Times Now, but they helped in building a liberal non-populist narrative. If it was not so influential then the government would have ignored this channel as it is more concerned about managing Hindi and regional language media, which has extraordinary reach, more so than English. There is some confusion about the timing of the raid. There are rumours that some in the government are keen for Roy to be compelled to sell the channel and move to South Africa where he reportedly has some business interests. These unsubstantiated reports suggest that yoga entrepreneur, Baba Ramdev, who has built a billion-dollar business due to his proximity to the incumbent government, is keen to take over this channel. Market information suggests that the Guptas of South Africa are backing Baba Ramdev. A few years ago, Ramdev had visited South Africa - a visit choreographed by the Guptas. In one of the videos the yogi gushingly invites the Guptas on the dais and tells the audience how god-fearing and pious the South African businessmen are. The Guptas, in turn, commit to support Ramdev in his enterprise. It is not clear whether this commitment has translated into a bid to take over NDTV. There are other businessmen, too, who want to take over this channel if Roy is not able to handle the heat of the government probe. Going by his response and that of the channel, they are not going down without a fight. An NDTV statement has criticised the CBI raid for not following procedure and suggesting a vendetta. The channel claims that the CBI action is based on defaulting on repayment of a loan and causing a loss of $9million. The news channel has posted a document from the bank to prove that the loan had been repaid and there was nothing outstanding against them. Closer inspection of NDTV’s finances, post the 2008 economic slowdown, show some financial jugglery, but clearly Roy and his company wanted to keep their company afloat. What is really interesting is that the bank, which has a foreign ownership, is not complaining. Quite obviously, the reason for going after Roy lies elsewhere. A few months ago a book was put together by some supporters of the BJP on the corrupt ways of NDTV management and how they had laundered money. The gravamen of the 
book was that the channel, for all its dubious money making ways, had no right to pass judgement on others. It was apparent that the authors, as well as the interests that they represented, were most uncomfortable with the credibility of the media, and wanted to show to a vast legion of supporters that NDTV had feet of clay. To be fair to Modi, the anger of his supporters is not just confined to this channel alone. Most of the liberal English language journalists are called “presstitutes” and “sickulars” (for being secular). It is not that the BJP government does not like the media at all. They are fond of those who do not question the government and also help build their narrative. A journalist in this government’s view is one who is a Hindu nationalist, who loves the prime minister, the army, and reports what is in the “national interest”. In the past three years, the Modi government has spent billions of dollars in advertising their claims in newspapers and TV channels. At a time of global slowdown,the  government’s generosity is good for all kinds of media, but not for its freedom.