The building, located in the heart of the nation’s capital, is complete and was a hive of activity yesterday with officials starting to move in. The colossal H-shaped building near the intersection of Madiba and Lillian Ngoyi streets will provide working space for 1590 city employees. Executive mayor Solly Msimanga said the occupation of the building was a milestone that would give effect to better co-ordination and effectiveness of city services. “Equally exciting is that the new budget and the Integrated Development Plan (IDP) have been approved and our work can now begin. “It feels like a new chapter altogether, and we are looking forward to serving our residents under these renewed conditions,” he said. The eastern side of the building houses the mayoral and city manager offices and are the first to be occupied. Officials were unpacking boxes, while others had already settled into their open-space glass offices. Others had come to collect their access cards and office keys. A park has been incorporated on the eastern side of the site, which can be opened for public functions. “This area provides space for a possible future extension to Tshwane House, which would be linked to the first phase by an interstitial corridor,” Msimanga said. Council Speaker Katlego Mathebe and her staff will move from their offices on Bosman Street to 
the western part of the building. They will be joined by the chief whip and staff on the same side of the building. Msimanga will relocate from the the Centurion offices he inherited from former ANC mayor Kgosientso Ramokgopa. Ironically, the Tshwane House project was initiated by the previous ANC administration. Isivuno House, which has operated as the city’s administrative building, will be empty by June 12 when staff are expected to have moved out and settled into Tshwane House. City manager Moeketsi Mosola will occupy an office on Block D - a spacious room with a shower and a bathroom. Council meetings will, in future, move from Sammy Marks to a new chamber located in the middle of the building. The council chamber has media and public galleries and translator boxes. Msimanga said he was particularly looking forward to the centrally located council chamber. The city’s project manager Pieter de Necker said the chamber would not be ready for use for this month’s council sitting. The upper part of the foyer is decorated with colourful artwork of Jacaranda trees, depicting the feel of the nation's capital. Tshwane House is located on the site of its predecessor, Munitoria, which was demolished in July 2013. Part of Munitoria had been destroyed by fire in March 1997. Munitoria was the municipal headquarters for 44 years, most of that time housing the apartheid regime. The new headquarters is one of the first government buildings to target a 5-Star Green Star SA certification within a public-private partnership. “The building was designed to provide a comfortable, healthy and productive working environment for its occupants, with an overall environmental strategy encompassing transport, indoor environmental quality, energy, water and waste,” Msimanga said. De Necker said each office had a sensor allowing the lights to automatically switch off if there was no movement inside the office. Msimanga said the initial building design incorporated a basement parking structure with a “citadel-type” building on top, accessed through a single doorway - a solution that did not engage the street or the public at all. “A cost-effective design was revised by dropping the building to street level and creating a more pedestrian-friendly environment,” he said. The entire relocation for all city departments is expected to end on June 12, he said. Employees' contact details will remain the same, with a temporary interruption to phones and e-mails.