Johannesburg - Cell C is seeking to cut its debt by 73 percent as part of a
deal that will help South
  Africa’s third-largest mobile-phone operator
sell a stake to Blue Label Telecoms while retaining its operating license,
according to two people familiar with the matter. The proposed transaction will see Cell C split about 9
billion rand ($688 million) of borrowings into three special purpose vehicles,
said the people, who asked not to be identified because the talks are private. Alongside stake sales to Blue Label and payment
services provider Net1 UEPS Technologies, the plan will cut the overall
debt to 6 billion rand from about 22 billion rand, they said. The special purpose vehicles will take on debt held by South Africa’s
Nedbank Group, a group of Chinese lenders, and a 400 million euro ($446
million) bond issued by Cell C that matures in July 2018, the people said. In
exchange, the vehicles will control a combined 30 percent stake in Cell C. Read also: BlueLabel deal with Cell C debtors The proposal is the latest attempt by Cell C to push through
the sale of a 45 percent shareholding to Johannesburg-based Blue Label for 5.5
billion rand, a deal agreed in October after almost a year of talks. It’s being cast as a debt refinancing rather than a takeover
as South African regulators may demand a license reapplication in the event of
a change of ownership, the people said. CellSAf, which is black controlled and
owns 25 percent of Cell C, argues that such a transaction would unfairly dilute
its shareholding and goes against South African initiatives to distribute wealth to people discriminated
against during apartheid. Blue Label shares rose 0.2 percent to 15.14 rand at
10.08 a.m. in Johannesburg
on Wednesday. The shares have fallen by almost 17 percent since the start of
the year. Ownership Structure One of the SPVs will be held by CellSAf, according to
the proposal. However, the shareholder hasn’t been officially informed and
hasn’t authorized the creation of any SPVs to hold shares in Cell C, one of the
people said. Another SPV will be controlled by 3C, the Oger Telecom controlled
entity that previously controlled Cell C and wants to exit the company. An
employee ownership scheme will own the third, according to the terms of the
proposal. “We have not announced any detail regarding the SPV
structure,” Michael Campbell, Blue Label’s head of investor relations, said in
an emailed response to questions. “Further particulars will be included in the
circular to be released later in June.” Cell C declined to comment. Some of the Cell C debt will be owed by the SPVs and will be
secured by shares in Cell-C, the Net1 board said in emailed response to
questions, without providing further details. Under the new terms of the transaction, Net1 will take a 15
percent stake in Cell C in exchange for taking over 2 billion rand of debt.
Other major Cell C shareholders will include the company’s management, led by
Chief Executive Officer Jose Dos Santos, according to a circular sent to Blue
Label shareholders. The CEO didn’t respond to phone calls seeking comment. In February, Cell C rejected an attempt by Pretoria-based
Telkom SA SOC Ltd. to gatecrash the talks with a $1 billion offer. A spokeswoman for Nedbank declined to comment. A phone call
to Oger’s head office wasn’t answered. BLOOMBERG