Pretoria - The business partner and lover of North West billionaire Wandile Bozwana told the North Gauteng High Court in Pretoria that she heard several shots being fired at them as they stopped their car at the Garsfontein off-ramp, east of Pretoria, in October 2015 but she could not see where the shots came from or who fired them. Mpho Baloyi was severely injured when about 12 shots were fired at her and Bozwana. She, however, recovered in hospital from her injuries. Bozwana, who was in the passenger seat of the car driven by Baloyi, died a few hours after the shooting in the Unitas Hospital. He tried to shield Baloyi from the bullets by leaning over to her side and covering his body with his. The four men accused of the murder and attempted murder this week pleaded not guilty to the charges. They said they knew nothing about the incident. They are Sipho Patrick Hudla, 34, Matamela Robert Mutapa, 40, Vusi Reginald Mathibela, 30,  and Bonginkosi Paul Khumalo, 36. Baloyi, meanwhile, testified that she and Bozwana were lovers since 2013. They had spend the evening before the incident together and the next morning they went to Sandton City to a tailor and a hair salon. They then had lunch at McDonald's in Greystone Avenue, where she received a call from her financial director that the tracker device on her car had been disabled. Baloyi said she checked it, but could not see anything wrong. The couple then headed to Pretoria along the N1 to go to a car dealership in Menlyn. Baloyi said as they stopped at a red robot at the Garsfontein off-ramp, she and Bozwana noticed a silver BMW sports car behind them. They commented among each other how nice the car was. Baloyi then noticed an unknown man opening the back door of the vehicle, but she did not pay much attention. The next moment she heard sounds, followed by the firing of bullets. Bozwana, who was trying to shield her, slumped between her seat and the passenger seat and although she was also injured, she decided to speed away and summon help. Bozwana was at the time of his death embroiled in legal proceedings with the North West province regarding the allocation of tenders. The trial continues. zelda.venter@inl.co.za Pretoria News