DUDUZILE PILA THE 100-year-old Christ Church sits in the heart of Arcadia, steeped in history and with artefacts gathered over the decades.The quaint and lovely Anglican house of worship bears much history from its foundations in the early 1900s - a past held as dear by the people who worship in it as those who live around it. Since then it has attracted the patronage of worshippers from all over South Africa and the world. The church has adapted to change yet maintained the essence it began with, despite the many changes that have occurred in the community around it.Established in an era of segregation, the church, as all churches should, stood its religious and non-racial ground to gain multiracial visitors and members over the years.Although building began in 1906, it was not finished due to a lack of funds until later that decade by John Cleland, who had worked closely with Sir Herbert Baker, with the assistance of parishioners and the public in raising funds.It was built in two phases and the story goes that the first stones laid were salvaged from the rubble left over from the construction of the Union Buildings.A tour of the interior of the building shows a majestically built church, complete with stained glass windows, the oldest in the south end of the church, installed in about 1907. The nine stained glass windows in the sanctuary were donated on September 8, 1963 and, from left to right and top to bottom, they illustrate scenes from the Bible: the creation, the fall, the saviour s promise, the annunciation, the reigning Christ, the nativity, the crucifixion, the resurrection and the ascension.The organ takes pride of place in the church, carrying a rich history. It was installed just after the church was opened and was, at the time, two small manual instruments with hand-cranked bellows. An electrical blower was added in 1913 and then it was substantially refurbished in 1941. During the tour, George King, who has been at the church since 1981 and is the choir conductor and organist, explained that the choir was well-known for maintaining a high standard of formal musical worship. The choir sings regularly at Sunday services, morning choral Eucharist, as well as on days such as Christmas and Easter. They also sing evensong on the first Sunday of every month. People come from all over just to hear the evensong, even people who worship here come here just to hear it, King said. The choir s existence dates back to the church s early days, having been established in 1907 and singing for guests at the dedication of the building.Father Clive Caesar, who has been with the church since 2015, said: The church has been very welcoming since I moved from Cape Town, and it has helped me to settle in. I could fit in because I have experience of being in a cathedral. Those interested in experiencing the magic of the church could go to the Tuesday and Thursday services. Morning prayer was at 9am, he said. On Sundays they could attend Mass at 7am and choral Eucharist, junior church and cr&egrave;che at 9.15am.