In addition, www.busrep.co.za and www.iol.co.za/personal-finance will be providing historical data to give readers the intelligence they need to make savvy investment decisions. All historical data for all of the more than 300 JSE-listed companies, as well as interactive share graphs and Stock Exchange News Service announcements, are available to readers at no charge. The relationship with Profile Data, which is providing the data and insights, will also give readers an enhanced reading experience as interactive graphs will be embedded within articles. “What sets these offerings apart from our competitors is that the tools are interactive, allowing readers a richness of experience for which we are not charging, because we believe it adds value and that they shouldn’t have to pay for it,” says Independent Business Online editor, Wesley Diphoko. Investment data covering both JSE listed securities and collective investment schemes will be provided to the Independent Media Group from Profile’s ShareData and FundsData services. ShareData provides a single source of comprehensive listed company information. The profile research team strives to capture all relevant information for every listed company, ranging from address details to comprehensive financial data. FundsData provides a one-stop data solution covering every aspect of the collective investment schemes industry, including unit trust fact sheets and fund-performance data, while the profile research team endeavour to capture and store all relevant information for every fund and every management company. ShareData also includes up-to- date index, currency, commodity and other financial data. “Over time, we will enhance these offerings to make them more interactive, offering even more value,” says Diphoko. Access them at: http://www.iol.co.za/business-report/market-indicators and here: http://www.iol.co.za/personal-finance/fund-look-up. SA’s leading daily site www.busrep.co.za is covering just the business of business and the economy, with over 400000 readers monthly. BUSINESS REPORT