The bill, called Raise the Wage Act, is sponsored by Sen.
Bernie Sanders and Patty Murray, and Reps. Robert C.
"Bobby" Scott, and Keith Ellison, and aims to
increase the federal minimum wage from its current $7.25 per hour to $15 00 per
hour nationally by 2024. However, the bill would also mean the elimination of a
long-standing provision that would allow employers to pay a
"sub-minimum" wage to workers in service industries [like restaurants]
jobs filled by teenagers and the disabled. There is almost no chance this bill will pass under the current
GOP-controlled Congress. But the proposed act has brought the practice of
paying sub-minimum wages under new scrutiny. Read also: Minimum wage hikes do close restaurants Many are concerned that the current provision allows
employers to take advantage of disabled workers. Some employers are paying their
disabled workers as little as "two cents an hour," Jordan Melograna,
the creative director of a Seattle advocacy group called Rooted in Rights, told
Seattle's KING5 news station. His organization is producing a documentary film
this summer on the issue. "They don't have a lot of political power to fight back
and so of course when you don't have political power to fight back you can be
paid what anybody wants to pay you." The result is that "hundreds of thousands" of
disabled workers earn around $2 per hour on average-with "many receiving a
lot less," according to this report on Prospect.org. Some employers put
these workers into separate "sheltered workshops" where there's not
much opportunity for advancement. But removing the sub-minimum wage provision may hurt some
organizations, like the non-profit SKCAC Industries, which leverages the lower
rate to offer jobs for disabled workers who can provide packaging, assembly and
organizational work for about 100 companies in the Seattle area. Although SKCAC Industries would like to see a raise in wages
paid to disabled workers, the reality is that many of its program partners
would struggle with the idea. Some of the organizations interviewed by KING5
admitted that they wouldn't be able to afford to hire any disabled people if
they were forced to pay a higher wage. "I don't think this can be fixed overnight and I don't
think anyone is asking for that," says Melograno. "I think the idea
is to transition and to increase the wages, provide real opportunities, and not
just assume that somebody is only qualified to work in a segregated setting
putting together a nut and bolt, repetitively, forever." WASHINGTON POST 