One of the cardinal beliefs of this dominant political party was that it had been called by God to preserve the superiority of and dominance of white people over other races in South Africa. The National Party (NP) then developed the ideology of white supremacy which resulted in the implementation of the apartheid policy which was reinforced by a massive white government-driven social engineering project of creating a society in which racial segregation became a way of life. Many forms of resistance to white domination led to a situation in which the NP and its apartheid policy was faced with a crisis of legitimacy and it became increasingly difficult to sustain the apartheid policy. The crisis was aptly articulated by the liberal legendary South African author when he said: “A man is caught on the face of a cliff, as he sees it, he cannot go up and he cannot go down; if he stays where he is, he will die. All those who stand watching have pity for him. From their point of view they can see which way we ought to go, but they see us taking some other way which will lead us to our destruction. “And the world looks at us in astonishment, wondering what madness has possessed us”. The words of Alan Paton, which were crafted almost 64 years ago, now seem to ring true for the current crisis that South Africa is faced with. In his book entitled We have now begun our descent: How to Stop South Africa losing its way, veteran journalist, Justice Malala, describes the crisis of legitimacy that the ANC government is faced with in the following terms: that South Africa is faced with a crisis of governance and leadership rather than an economic crisis. Malala argues that addressing the leadership crisis is not something that the ANC is responsible for alone: South Africans have a role to play and yet they have simply not done enough to challenge the status quo. The crisis of governance has resulted in an economic crisis that the country has never experienced since 2009. At the helm of government is a president who is the most unpopular head of state since the end of apartheid. In 1987, South Africa was on the brink of a civil war and the protracted violent uprisings in the townships were a clear indication that the South African government, under the white NP minority rule, was faced with an unprecedented crisis of legitimacy. At the height of the repression by the NP government, members of civil society from academia, business and sports decided to break ranks with the ruling illegitimate NP and went to Dakar in Senegal in a ground-breaking political initiative that broke the stalemate between the NP government and the ANC and contributed to decisive meetings between Nelson Mandela and PW Botha in 1989, followed by the negotiated settlement that ended apartheid. Dakar was not just a place for a meeting between the Dakarites and the ANC. The meeting in Dakar came about as a result of growing disillusionment with government under the NP. The Dakar experience was a major paradigm shift on the political mentality of the Afrikaans civil society and business leaders. They came out of their comfort zones and reached out to the ANC so as to build a united and non-racial society. Their shared vision of a new, apartheid-free South Africa was beyond the confines of party politics of the NP era. They did not only speak truth to power but they took bold actions aimed at ending the decay of the South African society under the illegitimate apartheid government. They acted in the face of powerful state machinery which brought about violent repression against those who sought to remove the NP from power. Thousands of patriotic South Africans lost their lives, but the Dakar experience became a foundation for a free South Africa that we see today. It came about because of men and women who put the country above self-interest and political party loyalty. South Africa urgently requires a second Dakar experience. Not by way of going to Senegal again. But ordinary South Africans desperately need to see a change of political mental attitude among members of the ANC who are in Parliament. It is encouraging to observe that some leading members of the ANC have joined civil society in the demand for the removal of Zuma as president of the Republic of South Africa for reasons of poor governance, corruption and state capture. The ANC has decided to deal harshly with voices of dissent within its ranks and one of Zuma’s most vocal critics inside the ANC, Dr Makhosi Khoza, has been threatened with death by those who are threatened by her voice of reason. The ANC has turned her into a sacrificial lamb to show other ANC MPs what will happen to them if they publicly ask the president of the ANC to step down as the president of the republic. Zuma and his allies have long started with purging those who don’t support his hold on power in government. Derek Hanekom, Pravin Gordhan and Mcebisi Jonas: they have been demoted from cabinet to backbenchers in the National Assembly. In the North West, the provincial cabinet minister, Madoda Sambatha, has been fired because he is a senior member of the SACP in the North West and the pro-Zuma North West government could not stand him any longer. The trend will follow in other provinces if it has not started. The battle lines are drawn. These are experienced politicians whose talent has been lost merely because they dare challenge the presidency of Zuma. Some senior ANC members, such as Ngoako Ramatlhodi, have decided to leave Parliament with their dignity intact after they were kicked out of the cabinet posts by the beleaguered president. Now that  the ANC in KwaZulu- Natal has decided to haul Khoza before a disciplinary hearing for calling on the president to resign, the same action must be taken against ministers Blade Nzimande and Thulasi Nxesi, who supported the ANC/Cosatu decision not to allow Zuma to speak at its congresses. All those who opposed the president (including the deputy president, who publicly said that the top six was not consulted on the nicodemus cabinet reshuffle) must be equally charged just like Khoza for disloyalty to the party and the party’s president. This can only be done if fairness is one of the core values of the ANC. But being corrupt to the core, the ANC will let their sacrificial lamb, Khoza, hang out to dry. On August 8, during a motion of no confidence in the National Assembly, ANC members of Parliament will once again be presented with two choices only, that is: voting for the interests of the people of South Africa, or for Zuma’s continued state captured and corrupt presidency. The issue of secret ballot is immaterial, it will require a “Dakar experience” - a paradigm shift of political mentality on the part of ANC MPs to vote for the removal of their illegitimate and unpopular political leader. On the same day in the evening, Zuma will be sitting on his comfortable lounge chair in his palatial presidential house. He will have in his hand a DSTV remote, he will watch a recorded programme of the proceedings of the parliamentary debate on the motion of no confidence against him. He will giggle as usual and marvel at not only how he has successfully warded off attempts by the opposition and civil society to remove him from power but how he manipulated the ANC to an extent that it had no option but keep him as the president of both the ANC and the Republic of South Africa. But that will only be one other victory in his never-ending political battles which have come to characterise his scandal-riddled presidency. The real political war for Jacob Zuma is the Battle of Armageddon in the ANC which will be fought at the party’s elective conference this December. In the true nature of the political chess Grandmaster, Zuma has seemingly convinced his party to offer him amnesty for the 783 charges of corruption, fraud and racketeering pending against him which have been on-going for close to a decade now. He also proposed at the ANC’s recent policy conference that in the coming Battle of Armageddon in the ANC, if Cyril Ramaphosa becomes president, the presidential candidate from his faction should be deputy president. So serious is this situation for him that he has offered to leave affairs of the state for some time and mobilise provinces to support “the compromise deal for the elective conference”. But what if things don’t work as planned by the political chess Grandmaster? Simple, there is always plan B for the Grandmaster: A private jet will whisk him to Dubai where he will live in comfort and leave South Africa in a worse economic mess. With four days to go, South Africa will want another Dakar experience from ANC MPs. That they should break with party tradition and put the interests of the people of South Africa above Zuma. On  August 8, 2017, if the ANC MPs choose Zuma above the rest of the South African society, then it’s quite possible that Jacob Zuma will be the last president of the ANC who was the president of the Republic of South Africa. Dr Tutu Faleni (PhD) is a DA member of the North West provincial legislature and a visiting professor at the Uganda Technology and Management University in Bogolobi, Uganda