The school claimed that on the day he died, Baby Atlegang was fast asleep when he was dropped off at school by his mother. However, Ivy Nkgudi denied this and said her son was his usual playful self. Principal and owner of the centre Marium Mopane said that when they were the hospital “a neighbour asked the mother why the child was crying bitterly that morning”. But Nkgudi said this was untrue - no one could confirm that it was indeed her child the neighbour was referring to. “He often cried daily when bathed or got dressed, like all children. Besides, there are other children in the vicinity; there was no way the neighbour could have known it was him,” she said. Police took statements on Friday, and the family is hoping the results of the post-mortem, expected this week, will shed light on what exactly happened to the child. Nkgudi claimed that she took her 5-month-old baby to Hlapogadi early in the morning, but later received an urgent call requesting her and the father of her son to go to the day care centre. The 41-year-old said she felt a bit uneasy because when she entered the premises she saw all the children playing outside, but no sign of her son. “I asked Mopane as well as the teacher where my child was and they told me he was sleeping.” Nkgudi said she asked to see Atlegang before they talked, but both the teacher and Mopane told her they would rather start with the meeting first before she could get to her child. The mother insisted on seeing the child first and walked into the room where her son was “sleeping”. “When I opened the door I found my child sleeping on the mat. I removed the blanket and was shocked to see his head swollen and his face green. The inside of his mouth was purple and his hands and feet were cold. “I quickly covered him again and walked out of the room, leaving his father there. As I walked out I could hear the father screaming and crying,” she said. The parents, the child’s teacher and Mopane took him to Kalafong Hospital, where a doctor declared him dead. Nkgudi said the doctor said he did not know exactly what happened to the child and urged the family to wait for the post-mortem. “The doctor filled in some forms, mortuary people came and took my child and we waited for hours hoping we would get answers as to what caused his death.” Mopane said that according to the teacher who received the child, he was asleep when the mother dropped him off. “It was the first time that the mother dropped off the baby while sleeping; we know him to always be playful in the morning. The teacher said the mother was also in a hurry that day and did not  chat with them like she usually did,” she said. She recalled that when she got to the daycare centre she asked where the child was as everyone was eating at the time, but she was told he was asleep. “It was unusual of him, but I let it slide. After doing activities with others I realised he was still sleeping which was even more surprising because he never sleeps when it is noisy. I told the teacher to wake him so he can also eat, but then I left. “On my way to the doctor, the teacher called and asked that I quickly come back, which I did. “Upon arrival I found the child’s face had already changed colour and asked what happened. “The teacher told me the child had been asleep,” Mopane said. Nkgudi has two daughters - Goitsemang, 19, and Nkhensani, 14 - and said she had always longed to have a son. “I cannot have children anymore. I prayed for a son; when I had him, I declared he was my last, but now he is gone.”