They are one of the oldest sites in the township, but their unsightly appearance seems to undermine their historical value. The place is unkempt and has tall and long grass growing around it, despite renovations done last year. Moito wa Mamelodi has been working on preserving the heritage and promoting tourism in the township east of the city. The organisation has been hard at work researching, collecting and documenting historical events, individuals and institutions of Mamelodi, the largest township in the country. Mamelodi Rondavels were originally constructed as formalised houses for the people of Mamelodi, but the community rejected them. The four-room houses were later built and the community accepted them. The rondavels have been declared a heritage site by the City. Aubrey Magase Masilela of Moito wa Mamelodi said the sorry state of the rondavels and vandalised thatched roofs were a painful sight. He was quick to highlight that other heritage sites in the township had been destroyed over the years. “The historic rondavels in Mamelodi are the only ones standing now, the only visible old heritage site in the township,” he said. He said they spent every day digging up information on the illustrious and proud history of Mamelodi. The sprawling township had contributed immensely to the rich history of the country, producing anti-apartheid heroes and continues to make a significant contribution to the politico-social tapestry, the organisation said. Masilela put the blame on the dilapidated state of the rondavels squarely at the door of the government, saying it had not made the required effort to maintain the structures and preserve their history. He said the place used to be the site of the Pretoria Bantu Normal College in the 1940s. The college is where the likes of Archbishop Desmond Tutu, PAC stalwart Stanley Mogoba and legendary footballer Steve “Kalamazoo” Mokone were schooled. “The school was run until December 31, 1959,” said Masilela. The yard where the rondavels are located is divided into two - the first has 14 old rondavels constructed in the 1940s, while those in the second section were built after 1994. Masilela said the college was a forerunner of what used to be known as Turfloop University in Limpopo. “Students then called it Kolege ya Bana-ba Africa,” he said. One of the eminent people who worked at the college was CR Motsepe, a history teacher. He later became the first principal of the present-day Mamelodi High School. “Mokone used to play for Transvaal Black Birds against the likes of Jomo Sono and Kaizer Motaung while he was a student at the college,” he said. Last year, the government undertook to renovate the site, but it was vandalised. “The renovations came, and it is now gone,” Masilela lamented. He had constantly complained to the government that it was creating a white elephant in neglecting the historical structures. “They go on public platforms and talk about policies that come to nothing,” he added. Initially, the apartheid government wanted to use the rondavels to provide accommodation for the growing black population in Pretoria. At least 50 units were built in 1947, but residents protested against the project and they were demolished. More rondavels were later built to house teachers of Kolege ya Bana-ba Afrika, established in 1946. The rondavels are not only the oldest known buildings in Mamelodi, but they may also be understood as symbols of apartheid and its accompanying education ideology. They used to provide accommodation for people coming to the annual jazz festivals at Moretele Park, but not any longer. The rondavels are a significant structure on the landscape of the country and represent a catalytic core of a precinct, that acted as an embryonic element of education. According to tourism authorities, they deserve to be restored to their former glory and maintained as a heritage site.