For me, this relationship has a personal significance. Over nearly two decades during my career at British supermarket chain Waitrose, I made regular visits to South Africa, visiting suppliers who exported excellent food and wine. I was there to support the work of the Waitrose Foundation, a scheme which sees a percentage of profits reinvested directly back into the farming communities of the Western Cape. Not aid, but trade at its most free and fair. It was through visiting communities, such as those in the Citrusdal Valley, that I saw the impact of trade at its most stark. Trade can empower people to transform their lives and across South Africa more than 50 000 farm workers and their families benefited because of the foundation and its partners. This is why I believe business is a force for good. British business has a long-held commitment to supporting southern Africa’s economic growth and development. My purpose in visiting was to make that message clear: the UK’s withdrawal from the EU does not signify a withdrawal from the world, but an increased openness, and that long-held commitment remains steadfast. I am committed to strengthening the trading ties between the UK and southern Africa, and to ensuring that, together, our businesses are well placed to grasp the opportunities of the future. For instance, South Africa is already the UK’s largest trading partner in sub-Saharan Africa, with bilateral trade reaching nearly £10 billion. It’s a growing relationship, with exports from both countries increasing year on year. The UK is also one of the largest investors in South Africa. The future holds incredible opportunity. British infrastructure capability is on hand as South Africa expands the impressive Gautrain and makes improvements to the fleet of its national airline. But we should also pool our expertise, working together on infrastructure projects and other business deals right across the African continent. This has never been more important. Trade is now back at the heart of the UK government’s policy agenda, and for the first time in more than 30 years, the UK has a dedicated department for international trade. It is the job of my department to help build a Global Britain - the most passionate advocate of open, free and fair trade anywhere in the world. We will strengthen and revive trading arrangements with some of the world’s most dynamic economies. Post-Brexit, we will be able to take advantage of the 90% of global growth that is projected to occur beyond the borders of Europe - with a key focus on Africa. Our priority is to ensure continuity and avoid any disruption to trade with our African partners. That’s why at the G20 summit, Prime Minister Theresa May announced a new partnership with Africa, focused more on supporting African aspirations for trade, investment and growth. It’s also why secretaries of state, Liam Fox and Priti Patel have committed to maintaining existing duty-free quota-free trade access to UK markets for least developed countries, and why I agreed with my southern African counterparts to ensure there is no disruption to our trading relationship under the EU-Southern African Development Community Economic Partnership Agreement (EPA) as the UK leaves the EU. That was the key purpose of my visit - meeting with trade ministers and representatives from Botswana, Lesotho, Mozambique, Namibia, South Africa and Swaziland, to discuss how we can work together on an arrangement that replicates the effects of the EPA once the UK has left the EU. I’m pleased that we’re like-minded on this: We agreed that this should be a straightforward task in our mutual interests. As a development-focused trade agreement first and foremost, the EPA provides a high degree of market access. This will continue. More than this, the EPA aims to increase development, support regional integration around trade, help develop regional value chains, and ultimately create a stable business climate so UK and African businesses can trade with confidence. None of these aims changes when the UK leaves the EU. We will continue to support African economies by offering a high degree of market access for their goods, while helping partners to take advantage of that access through Aid for Trade support. A swift and straightforward replication of the current trading arrangement should provide certainty to traders and businesses - small and large, all across the region. This is not simply about avoiding any disruption to the status quo, but about securing a foundation enabling us to work together to strengthen and deepen our trading relationship in the future. We are counting on your support throughout. Underpinning all of this is our recognition that the UK’s relationship with our African partners represents an exciting and enhanced trading opportunity into the future. Our common values, shared history, and commercial confidence in each other’s economies mean we have a strong base from which to build. I look forward to seeing what more we can achieve together. * Lord Price, Minister of State for Trade Policy at the UK Department for International Trade. He recently visited southern Africa towards the end of last month to hold discussions on trade with Sacu trade ministers.