He was one of the six fallen metro police officers honoured by the City yesterday during a prayer day. Wreaths were laid in honour of the men, who had died while on duty between 2014 and 2015. The ceremony took place at the Tshwane Metro Police Headquarters in Pretoria West. The others are Kgabo William Selepe, Johannes Matjeke, Tshepo Sello Mphaka, Smith Maubane Sefoka and Takalani Mukwevho. “This is an emotional event for me because tomorrow (today) is my husband’s birthday, and to honour him today is just overwhelming,” said Jane, Moathlhodi’s widow. Moathlhodi died in July 2015 in a motobike accident while he was on his way to Waterkloof. Jane said her husband dedicated his life to offer protection to members in the Presidency. She was happy to see that her husband’s memory would live on, she said,not only in her heart but also at the department he had dedicated his life to. Seeing his name engraved on the memorial stone like that shows that even if I die today his legacy will live on, and my children will get to know about their father and his dedication to the community. "This is a memory that will never be erased,” she said. The 42-year-old from Centurion said her husband left her when their children were young, but she believed his spirit was at peace, and she too was at peace and had dealt with the loss. She is mother to 5-year-old daughter Oregolagantse and a 3-year-old boy, Ditirotsaone. Department spokesperson Senior Superintendent Isaac Mahamba said: “Normally all officers who died in the line of duty are honoured at a national event each year. “But we felt that we also have to honour them as the department to interact with their families, check up on how they are doing and see where and how we can assist them.” Acting police chief Jenny Malan thanked family members for having allowed their loved ones to serve the community. “There are not enough words to thank you for allowing your loved ones to serve the community; we really appreciate it. To members in uniform, always be vigilant when you are on the ground busy executing your duty; your lives are important to us, so protect yourself when you are out there,” she said. Malan told officers that should anyone die as a result of a motor accident, it should not be their fault because they needed to lead by example while on the road. MMC for Community Safety Derrick Kissoonduth said: “Our residents need to feel safe and be safe in the city they call home. I urge you to be resilient as we seek to make our city safe and liveable.” He too thanked family members for allowing their loved ones to serve the community.