The DA and AfriForum said yesterday Grace would not be let off the hook after she flew back to Harare on Saturday evening with her husband, President Robert Mugabe, after she was granted diplomatic immunity by the South African government. AfriForum’s legal representative Willie Spies said Mugabe’s departure was not the end of the story. The chairperson of the portfolio committee on international relations, Siphosezwe Masango, said they would discuss the matter in the ANC study group tomorrow. He said they had not had time to sit down and discuss it since the furore began, and tomorrow’s meeting should come up with a decision. AfriForum chief executive Kallie Kriel said they will launch a review application of the decision to grant Mugabe diplomatic immunity. “If the review application is successful (and there are very good grounds to believe that such an application will indeed be successful) the doors will be open for the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) to prosecute Mrs Mugabe,” said Kriel. If the NPA refuses to prosecute Mugabe AfriForum's private prosecution unit will begin with a private prosecution. The DA said Parliament must institute a full-scale inquiry into the matter. DA chief whip John Steenhuisen said they want all the ministers involved in granting Grace diplomatic immunity to be hauled before the inquiry. He said it was inexplicable how the government allowed her to leave the country. He said the government did exactly the same thing when it allowed Sudan President Omar al-Bashir to leave the country when there was an international arrest warrant out for him. Somadoda Fikeni of Unisa said this would have implications for the government, and if Grace would be able to return to South Africa. “It will depend how the two countries have handled the matter. If it leads to court cases that will complicate the situation. But if she successfully challenges the case then she will still be coming back,” said Fikeni. He said this would not make things easy for the government of Zimbabwe in how it deals with the situation. South Africa has strong trade ties with Zimbabwe. It is South Africa’s largest trading partner in the region. SAA also confirmed that aircraft have started operating between the two countries after the weekend stand-off. An SAA aircraft was detained in Zimbabwe while an Air Zimbabwe flight was cancelled at OR Tambo International Airport. SAA spokesperson Tlali Tlali said they started operating the flights yesterday. Police spokesperson Vish Naidoo could not be reached for comment and he did not respond to text messages.