Hundreds of thousands of supporters cheered as well-known local musicians kept the crowd entertained before incumbent Paul Kagame of the ruling party Rwanda Patriotic Front (RPF), arrived at his final rally on the outskirts of Kigali. By contrast, some of independent candidate Philippe Mpayimana’s campaign venues have been nearly empty of people, underscoring a widespread belief among Rwandans that today’s election represents another coronation for Kagame, 
who won 93% of the votes in the last election and has been in power as president since 2000. In Kigali, there was little hint of the coming vote. Presidential candidates are barred from putting up campaign posters in most public places, including schools and hospitals. The electoral commission vets candidates’ campaign messages, warning that their social media accounts could be blocked otherwise. At his final stop of the campaign, Kagame repeated his pledge to work to enhance Rwanda’s development, strengthen security, and improve the general welfare of Rwandans. “We know how to make choices for our lives basing on where we have come from and where we 
are today,” he said. Frank Habineza of the Democratic Green Party of Rwanda  moved around the capital waving at the residents before he arrived at his last rally. “I will end all unnecessary and non-registered taxes to tax payers,” he said. For the past two weeks, the three candidates have been travelling countrywide soliciting votes. The RPF’s manifesto mainly focuses on strengthening the economy, social welfare, and good governance. Habineza campaigned on a pledge to promote food security, reinforce the rule of law, reduce taxes and promote green issues. Mpayimana focused on strengthening democracy, promoting trade and agriculture, fostering national unity and empowering young people. Many analysts predict Kagame will be the winner. “I think he will win with well over 90% of the total national vote largely due to his stature and achievement, the strength of his party RPF and the clear weakness of his opponents,” said Christopher Kayumba, senior lecturer at the University of Rwanda. More than 6.8 million people will participate in the elections. Kagame, 59, has been de facto leader or president since his rebels ended a 1994 genocide, in which more than 800 000 Tutsis and moderate Hutus were massacred by Hutu extremists in Rwanda. While he remains popular for presiding over impressive economic growth, some Rwandans say he uses the powers of the state to remove perceived opponents. Ahead of the polls, tension has been growing following the mass retirement of more than 800 army officers - rare before an election - and the reported arrest of at least four senior officers. Two decades of often deadly attacks on political opponents, journalists and rights activists have created a “climate of fear” ahead of the poll, Amnesty International said in a report last month. “There are many unknown prisons in this country, and many people have vanished and died there,” said one supporter of opposition candidate Habineza, Charlotte Umutesi. Rwandan authorities, including Kagame, deny critics’ claims that the government targets dissidents for assassination or disappearances. Others insist the president has widespread support. “People are influenced by the traumatic situation of the genocide and conflictual politics in the past and no one is ready to go back,” said Eric Ndushabandi, a professor of political science at the National University of Rwanda.