Pretoria - A 21-year-old man who was lured to a blind date by a woman he met on social media, ended up locked in a flat with his captors asking for ransom money from his family. Sunnyside police spokesperson, Captain Daniel Mavimbela said the man was the victim of what appeared to be a syndicate. This week, police arrested the woman's accomplice, Clement Oghonim, 27, who faces charges of kidnapping. Mavimbela said that Oghonim contacted the victim's brother and demanded ransom money. “But the victim's brother reported the matter to the Sunnyside police instead,” he said. Oghonim was arrested in a sting operation and appeared in court yesterday. Mavimbela said they were investigating the Sunnyside case. “It appears to be the work of a syndicate members of the public must be cautious of online dating sites,” he added. He urged members of the public to be comfortable when opting to report cases like these to the police. Social media luring scams were real, he said. “Members of the public must not fear to come and report social media-luring scams to us as we are their protectors and people must feel free to engage on issues such as this. We are here for them,” Mavimbela said. He appealed to members of the public to be cautious of online dating sites and, when meeting blind dates, they must always be around public places. A few other similar cases had been reported to the Sunnyside police this year about men being lured on social media under an impression of a blind date, only to be robbed and kidnapped at what the police officer said were government flats. In a similar fashion, social media was widely being used as a tool to lure victims and, in one highly publicised matter, 24-year-old Princess Mahlangu from Bloemfontein was rescued from a suspected sex-trafficking enterprise in Malaysia. She was lured through social media, under the false impression that she would take part in a modelling competition. Police Minister Fikile Mbalula spoke of what he termed a worrying trend of trafficking and warned people, especially women, to be safe as they were vulnerable to sex trafficking. “The issue of human trafficking is extremely serious and I want our young women in particular to know that they are the most vulnerable group to sex traffickers, who later harvest human organs from them for trade in illicit organ transplant markets,” the minister said. He said Facebook and the internet played a key role in Mahlangu being lured to Malaysia. Pretoria News