The architects, most of whom are members of the Pretoria Institute of Architects, have advocated for the restoration of the precinct to its former glory. However, they are unhappy about some “insensitive alterations” to the city’s heritage. They held a meeting to discuss “burning issues” around the major revamp of Church Square. The work includes landscaping and renovation, set to give the CBD a new, improved look. The revamp was announced by the City in January and will include the removal of some parking bays. Road in the precinct have already been closed, and other projects on the horizon include the establishment of an open-air entertainment hub, the Lalela Freedom of Expression Monument, announced by executive mayor Solly Msimanga during his State of the Capital Address in April. Tshwane Building Heritage Association heritage activist Anton Jansen said they were anxious about "insensitive alterations" being carried out at Church Square. Among the concerns were plans to plant large trees in front of the Ou Raadsaal and the Standard Bank buildings. The activists said this would disturb the look and feel of the historic buildings. Jansen said the trees would totally disrupt the spatial composition of the precinct, especially the relationship between the Ou Raadsaal and the Palace of Justice. They would rather see small trees being planted to enable people “to sit around and look around”. Participants at the meeting proposed the City constructed a playground for children. “There is nothing for children at the square. We don’t want a massive playground. Put in one of those old hand pumps found on farms and a small water reservoir so that the kids can pump and drink that water as well,” Jansen said. Another proposal was that the City displayed historical photographs of the square “so that the people can see its history”. The absence of a men’s toilet was of concern; and there was only a single toilet for women at the square. The participants resolved to request a meeting with the City regarding the developments to discuss their concerns and proposals. MMC for sports, recreation, arts and culture, Ntsiki Mokhotho said she was unaware of the concerns by the architects but would welcome a meeting. Jansen said: “Our concerns date back many years when the City decided to run the bus rapid system (BRT) through Church Square. "The City could have used other section for the bus route. They didn’t want to listen when we said the square needed to be restored to what it was.” Dr Udo Küsel, of African Heritage Consultants, presented a report that dealt with the historic tram line at Church Square. The report stemmed from the heritage impact assessment for the proposed second phase of the bus system along Paul Kruger Street. Küsel said the report was a discussion document calling for the preservation of the tram lines exposed by the construction of the bus infrastructure in February 2014. The construction had to be halted due to the discovery of the lines. Subsequent investigation revealed that most of the original tram lines still existed around the square. Küsel’s report recommended that " the tram lines, as well as all relics and buildings associated with the tram lines, are retained, rejuvenated and presented to the public, within the confines of the bus system requirements around Church Square”. The report said any other tram lines to be unearthed in the sections of Paul Kruger Street north and south of the square must be “documented and removed to an appropriated site as prescribed by the heritage authorities”. “A second phase impact study for the full length of Paul Kruger Street was requested by the client for the lifting and alterations to the historical sidewalk-surfaces and the granite curbing stones. This was completed in November 2013. “With the commencement of the construction of the Church Square section of the BRT system early in February 2014, exploratory excavations exposed remains of the historic tram lines,” the report said. When announcing the face-lift, the City said a section of Paul Kruger Street around the inner parameters would no longer be accessible to motorists. The road would be designated for use by BRT buses and emergency vehicles, to allow pedestrians to use the broad walkways. Pretoria News