Msimanga went into the area to provide feedback after weeks of consultations which followed violence, during which homes were burnt and many left destitute when squatters and formal home owners clashed. And yesterday he told them he could not remove the informal squatters near Extension 1 and 17 owing to legislation. “My hands are tied; I can’t remove the 4000 squatters because the Prevention of Illegal Occupation Act prevents me from doing so. “However, I have come up with workable solutions,” he said. He explained that he had gone to the area to appraise them on the future formalisation plans and long-term solutions to deal with the recurring service delivery interruptions. These are caused by unlawful land occupation by the informal squatters in the two extensions. Under heavy police guard, he took to the stage to explain his plans, much to the dismay of the residents. He said: “I cannot move them (squatters), because there are approximately 24000 people on the housing waiting list the backlog dates back as late as 1998. We have to sort them out first before we can deal with these squatters,” he said The crowd of more than 400 went into a frenzy, hurling insults and threatened to call off the meeting. Residents called for Msimanga’s head. “If you are not going to tell us that you are going to remove the illegal squatters, then we don’t see the point of this meeting,” one resident shouted. But Msimanga persisted and continued to relate the City’s plans. He said a dedicated desk had been set up at the Region 6 Customer Walk-in Centre to deal with the high municipal accounts of formal home owners owing to the illegal connections by occupants of the informal settlement. Each case will be dealt with on merit, he said. He said the process of installing a bulk water meter to measure the consumption of water and ensure accountability was in the pipeline. He added that registration of potential beneficiaries and shack marking will be done simultaneously with cleaning up and reorganisation of the informal settlement. “Additionally, the City has made available rudimentary services such as mobile chemical toilets and water tankers, including the installation of new 11KV feeder cable. “The City has further repaired all vandalised water meters at Mahube Valley, “ said Msimanga. But all that fell on deaf ears when the bond house residents threatened to take the law into their own hands. “If  you are not going to help us, Solly, we will take the law into our own hands. “Help us, Solly, or we will violently help ourselves,” shouted a resident. The metro police officers were kept on their toes as the crowd threatened to become unruly. One by one, residents told Msimanga of their woes of living next door to the squatters. Of main concern was that squatters were illegally connecting electricity which, in turn, forced them to pay big bills. They also said their properties were losing value because of the unwelcome presence of the informal residents. Some said the coalition between the DA and the EFF in Tshwane was causing conflicting views about the right to land occupation. They said that on the one hand the one party was condoning land grabs, while the other was advocating
legislation. The mayor’s address comes after violent protests in June. Homeowners were up in arms over the increase in their utility bills due to the illegal connections by neighbouring residents from the informal settlement. Illegal shack owners had, over the past year, illegally connected water and electricity. This led to an increase in the bill amounts for homeowners in Mahube. The tension has been brewing for some time.The residents of the informal settlement moved into an open space across the road in April last year. Another public meeting will be held on Saturday to further iron out the problems.