The People's Republic of China’s ambassador to South Africa, Lin Songtian, says leaders need to stop fighting over positions and put citizens first if they want to realise solid economic growth in the country. Songtian, who arrived in SA two weeks ago, has dedicated himself to improving diplomatic relations between the two countries that are trading partners and form part of the Brics bloc. “China puts people ahead of government. We have a mantra that says ‘Don’t forget the people or you’ll be forgotten by the people’. That’s why the Communist Party of China has a purpose to follow people wholeheartedly. You have to get ready to serve people and forget about yourself,” he said. The comes amid political tension in the country, with the ANC deeply divided, and grappling with factionalism. “We don’t have to worry about who will be president. Whoever is in that chair has to ensure that the economic growth of China is not less than 6%. Ten million students graduate from higher learning institutions. My government has no choice but to create 10 million jobs. "We have no time to fight among ourselves. "We have to push hard,” he said, adding that while China was a socialist country, it too strived to achieve democracy. Presenting the China-Africa ten co-operation plans geared towards development, Lin said one of the top priorities was to assist South Africa to create jobs and improve on infrastructure. “We have such a huge population in a poor country. But our (goal) has always been to maintain stability and focus on economic development. That's where China wants to go. “China is a country sitting in a boat. We have 56 nationalities. We're sitting in one boat fighting to go in one direction. "Economic development is our common aspiration. We have also reformed ourselves and have adapted to new situations through our policy, governance and behaviour.” Lin, who spoke at a press briefing at the Chinese Embassy yesterday, also used the platform to give a stern warning to those from his country involved in rhino poaching. He said the embassy planned to launch a joint campaign in South Africa against illegal hunting of animals and trading, which will include a partnership with the US, the UK, Interpol as well as other African countries, such as Kenya, Namibia and Ethiopia. “As the new ambassador to South Africa, it is my most important mission and core task to constantly deepen and enrich the China-SA comprehensive strategic partnership and to take concrete actions to support the efforts of the South African government to grow its economy and improve people's livelihoods.” The embassy also held a send-off ceremony for 29 young students and academics who are scholarship recipients.