Captain Marius Joubert is the State’s final witness and was meant to give expert blood-spatter evidence last week when the case was postponed because of his ill health. Despite strenuous objections by the defence, Judge Siraj Desai granted the State’s application for another postponement. Senior State prosecutor Susan Galloway told the court she had spoken to Joubert’s doctor who said he was physically not in a position to stand in court. She said: “This witness is part of the circumstantial evidence; it is in the interests of justice for the State to have a fair trial in presenting our case.” Defence advocate Piet Botha said he had flown in their own expert from KwaZulu-Natal and the postponements were costing his client a lot of money. Van Breda has pleaded not guilty to three counts of murder, one of attempted murder and one of defeating the ends of justice. He allegedly used an axe to murder his mother, father and brother at their home in the luxury security estate De Zalze in Stellenbosch in January 2015. His sister, who was 16 years old at the time, survived the attack. In his plea explanation, he claimed that a laughing, axe-wielding attacker wearing a balaclava, gloves and dark clothing broke into their house. His mother Teresa, father 
Martin and brother Rudi died in the attack when they were set upon with an axe, or “similarly sharp object”. Van Breda’s sister Marli suffered a severe brain injury during the attack. She has since returned to school, but has retrograde amnesia and therefore remembers nothing of the events and will not be called to testify. The chief forensic analyst at the police’s forensic laboratory, Lieutenant-Colonel Sharlene Otto, told the Western Cape High Court earlier this month that no unknown DNA was found on the scene at the Van Breda home. Her laboratory had analysed 216 samples taken from the crime scene. She conceded it was possible an intruder would not leave a trace: “If I wear personal protective equipment, gloves, a balaclava, if I cover my body and come in and go out, I won’t leave a trace. But, the crime scene may leave a trace on me.” Otto testified that nail scrapings taken from Henri’s left hand contained the mixed DNA of himself, his mother Teresa and his brother Rudi. A blood sample taken from the bottom of the axe handle also had a “mixture result”. Otto said Henri’s DNA could be read into the mixture, as well as the DNA of others, but there was not enough to read a full profile. A swab of blood from the head of the axe again showed both male and female DNA belonging to Teresa and Rudi. Otto testified that blood found on the corner of the shower floor was also a mixture of DNA profiles - Rudi’s, Teresa’s and Henri’s. - ANA