On Friday, a horrifying video of the couple’s assault sparked outrage on social media. In the video, the attackers could be heard swearing at Jacob Sono, 39, and his wife Dudu, 33. Police spokesperson Captain Kay Makhubela said the six were driving in two separate cars and attacked the couple behind them in the queue last Wednesday evening. Makhubela said that police were called to the scene and arrested four of the men. He said two other men fled and were still at large. The arrested suspects were identified as M Harding, 22, O Miller, 20, RJ Mel, 39, and DJ van Rooyen, 21. Makhubela said that a firearm was drawn and used to intimidate the couple. One of the men was heard saying “skiet hom (shoot him)” in the video. Makhubela said the couple was receiving trauma counselling. “The four men were charged with assault and intimidation with a dangerous weapon. They appeared in the Pretoria North Magistrate’s Court on Friday” Makhubela said. One of the men was released on bail while the others were denied it as they had given the police false residential addresses. The men will return to the Pretoria North Magistrate’s Court on Friday. The emergence of the video has been met with anger from all quarters, with most calling for stricter laws against racially-motivated crimes. But according to the Centre 
for Constitutional Rights, this 
would not solve the ever-growing incidents of racially-motivated 
incidents in the country. Its legal officer, Christine Botha, who condemned the incident, said the proposed Prevention and Combating of Hate Crimes and Hate Speech Bill was not the answer. Botha said that while it would address criminal offences driven by a racial motive, the legislation still fell short. She said that in the likelihood that a criminal offence was driven by a racial motive this would be an aggravating circumstance in sentencing the offender. However, she said that while it had emphasised and recognised the need to address hate crimes, the proposed legislation still needed to avoid any vagueness and overlapping. “The bill has met much opposition as it also includes the offence of hate speech which we strongly believe should not be included. The hate speech offence does not fall within the limits of hate speech as set out in the constitution,” she said. “As it stands, it would have far-reaching consequences and this is probably one of the biggest reasons the bill cannot proceed and truly address hate crimes currently.” Sono’s wife, meanwhile, has said the family did not feel safe as the attackers could still target them. She said the men had been asked to move forward in the fast-food drive-through lane, but retaliated by attacking her husband. The moment she realised that her husband was being attacked, she decided to record the incident, she said. The men then pounced on her. According to her, the men had a firearm. “They were swearing at us and threatening to shoot. “Obviously I was traumatised because my husband was lying there bleeding,” Dudu Sono  said. They sustained bruises and her husband apparently ruptured his ear canal. “He went to a specialist who said that it will heal on its own. We took X-rays and we were told there are no broken bones or anything, just bruises.” Minister of Police Fikile Mbalula posted on Twitter that the attackers were linked to a number of assaults in the area. “They assault black people around the area. We have arrested them,” he posted. The DA’s Adriana Randall commended the rapid response of the SAPS. “In a democratic and constitutional dispensation, there is no room for racism and no person should live in fear of abuse based on the colour of his or her skin.” The Ahmed Kathrada Foundation also expressed its disgust about the racial attack and said there was no justification for the abuse, its director Neeshan Balton said. “The racial dynamics in this incident are glaring. It is deeply troubling that people have not learnt the lessons from the previous incident at Spur. “There can be no justification for their vile racism and aggression. What is further distressing is that this group had no qualms about beating up a woman - something reflective of the patriarchal values that are still entrenched in society.”