Hospital chief executive Naing Soe said the R60 million project was started two years ago through the assistance of the Health Department and government leadership. He was happy they were able to transform the hospital to world-class level. Soe said even though the project was completed promptly, they ensured that the refurbishments were done without compromising quality. The bank hall, post-maternity and maternity wards, waiting area, hall and bridge leading to the paediatric section had been renovated and fitted with the latest technology advancements within the health sector. From hospital beds, baby beds, defibrillator machines, doctors waiting rooms and paintwork, the department was given a fresh, user-friendly atmosphere for expectant and new moms. Health MEC Dr Gwen Ramokgopa attended the event and presided over the unveiling ceremony. She said it was crucial that accomplishments and progress made within the department were celebrated as they bolstered staff morale and improved service delivery for residents of the capital. Ramokgopa said hospitals in the province under the tenure of good leadership would turn over a new leaf and ensure that health services were given back to the people as it belonged to them. The life span of machinery bought would, according to the MEC, be extended as they would ensure regular maintenance checks were conducted and renewals done timeously. She said: “The leadership of institutions get drawn into the needs of the institution instead of focusing on their core mandate and asking themselves how the citizens are benefiting from our service.” Ramokgopa said it was important for those providing clinical care to embody a positive and welcoming attitude towards members of the public, so as to allay fears as they encountered an uncertain situation. Observing the underlying causes behind the deaths in the Life Esidimeni debacle, she said she had noticed a need for departments to work in collaboration and not in isolation. “Hospital boards and committees need to work in an integrated manner. "We need to constantly be asking ourselves as public health servants how the changes we are making are going to benefit the citizens,” Ramokgopa said. Another upgrade due for implementation in provincial hospitals was the installation of the online E-Health System. The system was already being introduced at the Steve Biko Academic Hospital in the city. And while the Albert Luthuli Hospital in KwaZulu-Natal had already introduced digitisation, Ramokgopa said it was too expensive and they would be looking for more affordable systems. “We want to move to digitisation to ensure that by the time the patient sees a doctor, their profile and information is already available for the doctor to access."