They were accusing mayor Solly Msimanga of poor service delivery and neglect. The pensioners, under the umbrella of the Mabopane Winterveldt and Ga-Rankuwa Concerned Group, called on the the city to resolve issues including sewage spills, the lack of electricity and water, and having no working street lights. Samson Makweya, 83, from Mabopane Block U, said the City did not take care of its elderly citizens - it was evident in the lack of services. Makweya and his wife Elsie said street lights were rarely repaired. “There is excessive crime due to this darkness,” he said. Makweya was one of about 70 pensioners who made their way to Pretoria, many who hobbled through the CBD on their way to Tshwane House to plead for help. They were led by group chairperson David Ratladi, who also accused the City of turning a blind eye to public consultation in matters that affected the community, among others the metro’s new one bill system which combined their water and electricity bills. Ratladi said the City did not inform residents of the decision to combine water and light bills. “We want the City to come to us and explain in detail how it all works.” As the pensioners prepared to hit town, another group locked down parts of Mabopane Soshanguve and Winterveldt North, blocking roads and disrupting traffic. Motorists were frustrated and commuters left stranded. The police had their hands full as the group of younger people protested against the lack of service delivery. They blocked streets with rocks and burning tyres for a good part of the morning. The SA National Civic Organisation joined the group in the march to Tshwane House, with secretary Philip Letlape condemning those who had blocked the roads. He said these were “isolated incidents” that had nothing to do with their action. The marchers were ferried to Marabastad from their communities, where they gathered at the old Putco bus depot before heading to Tshwane House. Metro Police spokesperson Senior Superintendent Isaac Mahamba said the march had received the necessary approval, and warnings had been sent out about streets to be affected. The disruption to inner city activities was the second in four days, after taxi drivers came from across Pretoria, embarking on an illegal protest which caused havoc in the CBD. They carried weapons including golf sticks, garden spades and baseball bats and they intimidated people taking videos and photos of their procession, also to Tshwane House. They hurled insults at journalists and passers-by who took videos, grabbing phones and breaking them when they sensed any refusal to delete the recordings. They had gathered from different taxi ranks in the townships. There were reports of intimidation and violence in Soshanguve, Mamelodi, Mabopane and Ga-Rankuwa that morning, where taxi drivers blocked roads with their vehicles, rocks and they burnt tyres. They wanted Msimanga to scrap the enforcement tickets which they claimed prevented them from renewing licences and licence discs, vowing to make the capital ungovernable if their demand to scrap the traffic fines was not met. Housing and Human Settlements MMC Mandla Nkomo received the memorandum on behalf of the mayor, who is on special leave. “We'll respond in the stipulated 14 day period.”