However, City MMC Mike Mkhari, who visited the family, did not disclose what assistance would be offered during this agonising time for the rest of the family. The Mamba family learnt that the six had died when an Opel Corsa bakkie was involved in an accident. It had 13 people packed on it, when it was involved in the accident, according to police. The family was still trying to come to terms with the accident, which occurred at around 11.30pm on Saturday night. Shocked members of the family and friends visited the home at Extension 4 throughout the day to offer their condolences. According Pretoria North police spokesperson Lieutenant Rebecca Phahlane, the white bakkie might have lost control on the Hebron and R80 freeway. Phahlane confirmed that six people, including a 15-year-old, as well as a 55-year-old man, were among the six dead. All together, three adults and three children from the same family died. Seven others - five adults and two children - were rushed to the Dr George Mukhari Academic 
Hospital. Among those in hospital is the driver of the vehicle, who is believed to be in a critical condition. “We are investigating a case of culpable homicide. “We still don’t know what happened and are trying to establish the cause,” said Phahlane. Although the police suspected that the cause of the accident was that the vehicle being overloaded, they also thought the driver might have lost control. There was no other car involved. It is believed the family was returning from a wedding in the neighbouring Soshanguve Block GG when the accident occurred. According to Phahlane, the hospital refused to grant the investigating officer handling the case access to the survivors or to go inside the ward. The family said they were too bereaved to address members of the the media. They asked that they be given space to grieve. Neighbours also kept mum and refused to talk about the accident. Local Ward 37 councillor Siphiwe Montlha spoke briefly on behalf of the family. “They still need adequate time to deal with the horrific accident. The haven’t come to terms with what has happened and would like to recuperate before sharing any information,” he said. When the Pretoria News arrived at the home, Montlha had been in a lengthy meeting with the family. He said the community would mobilise to help with the burial arrangements and finances. “We have appealed to the community members to possibly help where they can in these trying times,” 
he said. Montlha said he would also appeal to city mayor Solly Msimanga for assistance. Mkhari added: “It’s important that the general public and motorists obey the rules of the road at all times. Speeding is just not acceptable, especially at night, and so is driving without wearing a safety belt.” He added that many motorists were unaware of how to deal with the challenges of driving at night. * People wanting to assist family should call John Molepo 076 750 2300 and Councillor Montla 072 676 7291 or 071 274 5036