Pretoria - The bride at the wedding - from where six members of a Soshanguve family were returning when they were killed in a car accident - said she regretted having held her wedding last weekend. The wedding took place in Soshanguve Block GG last Saturday. “I have had sleepless night since Sunday morning, when I found out about the accident. Maybe if it wasn’t for the wedding my family members would still be alive,” said a distraught Esther Skosana 
on Thursday. She said what haunted her 
the most was the manner in which the people died, especially the 
children. “They were young and had a bright future ahead of them. “Their small faces are etched in my mind,” said a tearful Skosana. She was speaking during a memorial service for the six members of the Mamba family in a Kopanong community hall in 
Soshanguve. The mood was gloomy as different speakers, including friends and neighbours, related their memories. Portraits on stage of those who died  stared blankly at the family members and other mourners. The children included Mashaba,7, and Lehlogonolo,12. The other four victims were adults, ranging in age from 27 to 55. They were from the Mamba, Moridi and Mogashoa families, all related. Mourners at the memorial service included Tshwane MMC of roads and transport Sheila Sengkugubane, ward 37 councillor Simphiwe Montlha and members of the community. Janet Mphelele, the principal of Gontse Primary School, which two of the dead children attended, said pupils were still reeling from shock. She described the Mamba siblings as respectful and courteous. “As young as they were, they embodied good character. “It’s was clear from their upbringing that they were going to be successful, but obviously God had his own plans,” she told the congregation. According to Pretoria North police spokesperson Lieutenant 
Rebecca Phahlane, the White Opel Corsa bakkie the family members were travelling in that night may have lost control along the Hebron and R80 freeway. It was packed beyond capacity, with more than 30 people. All the victims died on the scene. The seven injured survivors, five adults and two children, were rushed to Dr George Mukhari Hospital Academic Hospital. Among those in hospital was the driver of the bakkie, who is believed to be in a critical condition. “We are investigating a case of culpable homicide. “We still don’t know what happened and trying to establish the cause of the accident,” said Phahlane. She said it was suspected the overloaded vehicle have lost control as there was no other vehicle involved. The City pledged to send four buses for the funerals tomorrow and Sunday. The Speaker’s office will also be assisting with groceries for the families. Montlha said the community and local business leaders had pitched in and helped raise funds. These were handed over to the families. “The support has been overwhelming and contributed generously to making sure that the deceased will be buried with dignity,” he said. Details of the funeral locations and times will be confirmed on Friday. Pretoria News