“It is here where non-racialism has come to die, if we let it.” That is how I am paraphrasing journalist Ferial Haffajee. It is at these places where, for a millennial, the definition of racism should go deeper than “racism was historically associated with power; black people, who never had political and economic power, naturally could not be racist”. That argument is flawed. It is too structural, very limiting and it is more favourable to black people like me. The manifestation of racism goes beyond who holds political and economic power. Racism is rooted in how we think, in our ideas, our attitudes, our conduct, mannerisms and behaviour. These attributes are not exclusive to a certain race, they are something every person, irrespective of race, has. Hence I say black people can be, and are, racist too. However, we are protected structurally from being called racists. Society says to us: “Because poverty and lack are synonymous with being black, we cannot be racist”. That is untrue. We have ignored generational differences and change. We are so obsessed with whiteness and white privilege that we often overlook or disregard the privileges and opportunities that have come to us with freedom, and the advantages of having a black-led government. To an extent, we have modelled our own “apartheid”. I, Kabelo as a black writer, can openly state that blacks can be racist too. Dare a white writer put pen to paper to express the same view I am giving here? We are finding ways to silence white people in our country. Whatever distasteful thing a black person says or does to a white person, it is anything but racist. I hear the grandparents in my village say; “life was so much better under the apartheid government”. “We knew what to expect and we were never disappointed. It is sad that we are led by black people who steal our money, who, every five years promise us a better life for all, but deliver nothing. “During apartheid, we were given what we were promised, even if it was not enough, they delivered.” These are old black people expressing views on the appalling leadership of the ANC and its alliance partners. But the same view would not see the end of 140 characters on Twitter should it be expressed by a white person, even without qualifying the context of what is being said and by who. We have many examples of black workers who are abused and mistreated by black employees. They pay them too little, they overwork them, they give little thought about their lives and, to them, they are inferior blacks who amount to nothing but servants. And it goes  further. Whenever I am on a taxi ride to town, full of black people from my village, and we pass a white person begging for food, the comments go like this: “Ja, suffer, you deserve it. We have suffered a lot from you white people”. “Even if I find you dying of hunger, I wouldn’t give you a cent or food.” That is racist. Hunger knows no colour. But even more saddening, it is the anger that’s being passed from one generation to the next. There is so much that the ANC-led government could have done to address the imbalances of the past.  Of course it won’t take only 23 years,  but surely the government could have done better? However, for every little thing that could have been addressed by the government, we blame whites. “We are angry; of course we should be angry. The anger should also make us realise that a non-racial South Africa is only viable in a utopian world. We are a country made up of different races, with different cultures and different traditions. But we must treat each other right. Black, coloured, Indian and white children go to the same schools, live in the same suburbs, eat at the same restaurants. They date each other, they love each other. The children in the villages I come from - Pankop, Mmametlhake and Phake - are more concerned about why the government is not getting them computers, building them decent science labs and good sporting facilities, because to them too, if blacks are in power, it means they should be ensuring a better life for them. White privilege exists but they do not think of it. These children should not be ignorant about racism. However, they should not be subjected to the same structural racism experienced by their parents and grandparents in apartheid. Because, as Haffajee warns (in her book, What if there were no whites in South Africa?, “When black fury meets white denial, you have the combustible and fundamentally changed race relations we live in today.” In the same breath, when blacks think badly about whites, have negative or derogatory ideas, attitudes, conduct, mannerisms and behaviour towards whites, they must know they are being racist too. Chabalala is the founder of the Young Men Movement. E-mail: kabelo03chabalala@gmail.com; Twitter: @KabeloJay; Facebook: Kabelo Chabalala