“I had this idea in my heart because the people in Block JJ were troubled by the long journey to the clinic in Block BB, and had no money to travel there,” Mphago said. “I woke up one day and decided to apply for the land to be used for a clinic, and this is it now.” The new provincial primary health care facility stands next to an older health facility in Block JJ, which was small and made up of shacks and containers. Gauteng MEC for Health Dr Gwen Ramokgopa and executive mayor Solly Msimanga took a walk from the old to the new, with the community behind them ululating and celebrating. The new health facility was built at a cost of R29million. Mphago said he wanted it to provide not only health care, but social workers should also work there. “I want social workers to work from that land, because while in 1992 I was unemployed, I volunteered to help my community meet their medical health care needs,” he said. The people of Soshanguve are thrilled to have the clinic. The facility had already started providing services by the time the MEC and the mayor arrived. Resident Lindiwe Mlambo said the clinic came at a time when they really needed it, because of the high number of cases of young people contracting sexually transmitted infections. It was near their homes and this meant they did not have to pay to travel to other clinics. “It is great having a clinic nearer to us as it will expand services; we will have a better health provider right here on our doorstep. "The young people will get more information on health and it will reduce the number of HIV cases in Soshanguve,” Mlambo said Officially opening the clinic, Ramokgopa said it was a sign of progress in terms of the constitutional right to quality health care. She thanked the workers who worked at the old clinic despite the conditions there. “I want to thank the health providers and all the workers for serving our people despite the conditions of the facility. We appreciate it but it could not continue like that,” she said. She had words of gratitude for Mphago for his kick-starting the initiative. “We should thank Mphago as he is the one who saw fit that the community have a clinic and better service, in his very own yard.” Ramokgopa promised the community that a new district hospital would be built in the area. She told the people of Soshanguve they really needed a hospital. Msimanga thanked everyone who was part of the project and told the people of Block JJ to take care of the clinic. “This has been a very long journey; we would like to thank everyone who was involved with this project. I would like to say to the people of Block JJ do not destroy what you have in pursuit of other things you want,” he said. The community had to take care of what they had. “We are hoping that what started at the containers will be doubled in the formalised facility we now have,” he added. The mayor said the facility was to give the people dignity which should be celebrated because they would receive first-class medical attention. He and the MEC would ensure that the clinic operated 24 hours a day.