They remind or even compel the country to sit back, reflect on their historical significance, and even move forward with more zeal to achieve that which had seemed less meaningful at that point in time. For instance, March 21, which focuses on human rights, September 24, which reminds us of our heritage, and Christmas Day, which has a significant meaning as the birth of Jesus Christ, especially for Christians, come to mind. There are certainly more of such significant days (often translated to months) on the South African calendar of holidays, but none more important than August 9, which was declared National Woman’s Day. Wisely conceived, this day, like other public holidays, has its celebration extended throughout the entire month of August. Its existence has been inspired by the 1956 Women’s March on the Union Buildings. Whenever one remembers this historical day, one is bound to also remember the likes of Lillian Ngoyi, Helen Joseph, Sophia Williams-De Bruyn, Rahima Moosa, Bertha Gqowa, together with hundreds of other brave women who participated in this famous march against the pass laws. The motivation, and of course the continued justification of such public holidays on the calendar, as mentioned, lie in their meaning. August 9, and the entirety of this month for that matter, focus our attention on the plight of women in particular, and, of course, of human rights in general. Like the special human beings they are, women are sharing the celebration of this day and month with children and other vulnerable groups. Children come to mind as well whenever one raises issues relating to womenfolk. Race and racism is never left behind either, and neither are issues of the differently abled persons. These issues get lumped together with gender-related matters which are broad in their own special way. In light of all these related issues and dynamics, it would be unwise, therefore, to look at women-related matters without consideration of these other side matters. However, it would also be wrong not to attempt to give special and dedicated attention to such matters as those which are affecting women in the main. Sadly though, as much as there is a lot to celebrate in terms of efforts made thus far to emancipate women from the claws of patriarchy, to empower them, and to get them developed, there is also much to regret in terms of failing to make the necessary progress in attaining all set objectives in this regard. We may celebrate women considering where they have started their quest of emancipation - including progress made in terms of leveraging a progressive gender transformation and development framework in the stakes of learning opportunities, employability, and of course the elevation/promotion to positions of significant influence in society. From where I stand as a man, I do not think that it would be appropriate of me to declare progress made to date in the realm of gender transformation, woman empowerment and development, to be a success story yet. What I feel comfortable doing at this stage, though, is to highlight challenges that continue to taint the picture of any good intent and progress made thus far, especially since 1994 when August was declared Woman’s Month with the focus on women’s plight. South Africa woke up to a sombre Monday morning on August 7 this year when the deputy minister in the Department of Higher Learning and Training was alleged to have beaten up women in a Fourways night club in Joburg. As much as the merits and the demerits of the case are still unfolding in the public space, evidence of wrongdoing is already pointing at the dishonourable deputy minister. When I heard the news, three questions arose: where did it happen (location), when (time), and what capacity did the alleged perpetrator occupy? I did not ask these questions to formulate a moral argument about the said place, time and occupation of the alleged perpetrator and I did so without wishing to take away the minister’s choice of place and time to entertain himself. Ministers are human beings with flesh, blood and bones like everybody else. They also have feelings, aspirations, yearnings and a natural urge to have pleasure. The questions, however, arose in my attempt to understand the rationality of reacting to whatever may have triggered the act of violence. To put it bluntly, here is a public figure in a public space, engaging in a violent manner against people who were not fighting back with him. The act took place in the wee hours of the morning when the citizens of South Africa, especially troubled tertiary students, are expecting their minister to be preparing himself to moot solutions on the #FeesMustFall Campaign’s outstanding challenges, only to find such a minister beating up people in a club. This disgraceful incident has taken place at a time when rationally thinking South Africans are doing their bit to moot solutions on the disgraceful incidences of gender-based violence across the country. It is not an isolated incident between “ordinary” people whose levels of education, sophistication, rationality, and awareness of human relations in general, and gender-based violence in particular, can be questioned. It is an incident involving an educated, sophisticated person whose attitude has been tested, and dismally failed to react rationally to what seems to have been a non-violent conflict matter to engage on. There is no way that anyone, let alone an educated and sophisticated minister in government, can ever justify the beating of any person because such a person holds a different view from his. This is not only a gender matter where a man took advantage of vulnerable people and beat them up. It is a human matter where a person took advantage of seemingly physically weaker people and beat them up. Minister Mduduzi Manana’s alleged conduct is a reflection of the attitude of South African men in terms of gender power relations. He is not an exception to the rule among a lot of educated and sophisticated men who beat up women willy-nilly, although he may be an exception to the rule among educated and sophisticated men who beat up strangers in public places at odd hours. He had chosen to demonstrate (because he is not a fool) how deep-seated the gender based violence is in the country - where it is not a phenomenon among uneducated and unsophisticated men only, but a patriarchal remnant that remains prevalent even among people who are expected to fight it in society. The celebration of the 2017 Woman’s Month, therefore, is taking place within the context of gender-based violence, where both enlightened and unenlightened men engage in violence against women. As much as this senselessness can be attributed to personal attitude and behaviour as perpetrators have to take responsibility for their actions, blame can also be placed at the “doorstep” of patriarchy and socialisation of men. It is, however, important that in our search for solutions, we should also place human faces to oppressive systems. Patriarchy, therefore, is an embodiment of chauvinistic men who beat up women because they feel like doing so. As Bob Marley sings ‘No Woman, Nuh (don’t) Cry - Please don’t shed no tear - Everything is gonna be alright’, an earnest appeal to South African women is to shed despair and continue to fight against the patriarchal system. This discussion would not be complete without an attempt to resolve the challenges. Unlike public figures like Manana, there are other public figures who have come clean in terms of their transformation from being women-beaters to women lovers. Patrick Shai of Sonke Justice and Sello Maake-ka-Ncube of Afriman Rising Campaign, renowned television and stage stars in South Africa, are playing roles of educating men about human co-existence with a bias on good gender relations between men and women. When we celebrate Women’s Month, therefore, we also celebrate people like Patrick and Sello. Patriarchy is not a phenomenon which requires the sole attention of men, but is a human phenomenon which requires broad and collaborative attention by both men and women. Efforts of conscientising men and boys on acceptable practices of human engagement at the national level need to be augmented by localised and small-group mentorship and workshop interventions. Families need to be empowered as well with tools to challenge regressive cultural, religious, and traditional practices which undermine the progress made thus far for reversing patriarchy. These efforts require collaboration of various parties where women who have proven themselves to be great teachers on various platforms of life can continue to teach their male counterparts on good engagement. As much as men are responsible for the introduction and damage caused by patriarchy, women cannot afford to fold their arms while irrational men still cling to the patriarchal system for continued segregation and violence against them. In addition to efforts of finding fault in our society, we should also double our efforts to improve our search for solutions to this stubborn system of patriarchy. Let us also find out who we may be leaving out in this effort of healing our society. A critical approach to our awareness content is, therefore, required, instead of only rushing in to celebrate the relatively little progress we have made thus far. Gender-based violence affects everybody, however, in different ways. No one can ever question the severity of such violence on women and children, even when incidences of men-abuse are beginning to escalate. The rationale behind such escalation is a continued result of the lack of willpower to eradicate gender-based violence in its total form, but also because society is not well equipped to address this scourge effectively. What is evident out there is the fact that there is too much violence which threatens the very existence of humanity. We are humans before we are boys and girls or men and women, therefore, it is from this point of departure that we should consider our humanity before anything else, especially anything else that is being constructed socially and politically by ourselves with the purpose of biased  and exclusive benefit. A moral regeneration drive is also required to redirect us back to a morally influenced path, where wrong and bad remain what they are without looking at who the person behind is. Former public protector, Thuli Madonsela, speaks of a journey of healing divisions of the past, while Father Smangaliso Mkhatshwa is grappling with the resuscitation of the Moral Regeneration Movement. What part are we playing in this regard? In closing, the South African population needs to engage in vigorous conversations on social cohesion - co-existence that cuts across racial and gender lines. A critical and reflective analysis of where we come from as a nation in a building process informs us that we are not doing well in the gender transformation stakes. The rising statistics of gender-based violence characterised by death incidences at the end, bear testimony to the aforegoing, and it is until sanity, humanity, compassion and unconditional love prevail that we are headed nowhere near the much-idealised united nation of South Africa. * Makena is a life coach and author