And business owner David Letshekga claimed the incident was a land-grab exercise by EFF members. Letshekga alleged the attack on his seven-month-old business stemmed from disagreements he had on social media and in community meetings with EFF members. He said he had told them they did nothing to ensure people got jobs. He singled out EFF ward 107 chairperson Nicholas Thaba as being particularly antagonistic, accusing him of starting the fire. He claimed Thaba had been spotted running from the first site, and that he encountered him while still at the second property. “On the first night I received a phone call that my stock (of plastic and glass bottles) was on fire and rushed there to extinguish it with the help of neighbours. I was then told by some that they had seen Thaba there,” he alleged. Just after midnight the next day, Letshekga and co-worker Lennie Shayi claimed they were woken up by barking dogs, and when they rushed outside into the second yard where more recycling stock was kept, they saw that it too was on fire. “There, we actually saw Thaba, who told us point-blank he was burning the stock to clear it for shacks,” he said. Shayi’s shack was also destroyed in the fire. He opened a case with the police. But Thaba denied starting the fires, saying it could have been supporters of his party. “It was not me,” he told the Pretoria News. He went on to explain that those who had burnt the bottles could have done so because the yards apparently belonged to the EFF. He claimed Letshekga had grabbed the land with the assistance of the police, who evicted residents from there. “The land belongs to the EFF. We occupied it first and put up homes for the people. We told him multiple times to move his stock, but he refused,” said Thaba. He also brushed off claims of a sour relationship between himself and Letshekga, saying he suspected the police did not take the recycling man seriously because they thought it was just litter or trash that was piled up on the land. “Just because it was bottles, people saw it as trash and nothing serious,” he added. Standing on what remained of his bottles, Letshekga said he was heart broken at the loss of R15 000 worth of stock. He was struggling to make ends meet, he added. “I cannot provide for my children, I have debts and there is no money in my bank. Even my employees are not earning anything right now,” he said. Letshekga said he would start afresh and collect bottles. “I will not stop running my business even though I feel demotivated I have to do something for my children."