The meeting was to have taken place on Monday. SACP acting spokesperson Mhlekwa Nxumalo said they wanted to brief the ruling party leadership on their resolutions taken at the July elective conference. These included their repeated call for President Jacob Zuma to step down and that the communist party had resolved to contest elections in 2019. Had the meeting gone ahead, party bosses such as Zuma’s fierce critic, Solly Mapaila, would have told the president face-to-face had he been there that his time was up. Nxumalo said Nzimande spoke over the phone with Mantashe about an hour before the meeting was due to take place at the ANC Luthuli House headquarters in Joburg on Monday, in an effort to agree on the agenda. “We wanted to check and satisfy ourselves with the agenda items that would be discussed so that we agreed on them. But during the telephone discussion between the secretariats, we discovered that the ANC had its priority items it wanted to put on the agenda and we also had ours,” Nxumalo told Independent Newspapers. “It was clear that if we proceeded with that meeting it wouldn't have been helpful to either organisation. Therefore it was agreed that the secretariat of the ANC and of the SACP should sit down and prioritise all the issues that needed to be discussed and to schedule another meeting in two weeks’ time,” he said. Nxumalo would not be drawn on other SACP items that were on the agenda. “I don’t think it’s fair to share them with the media until we have shared them with the ANC.” He admitted, however, that some of the issues they would have tabled before the ANC leadership included their call for Zuma to go and that the SACP intended contesting state power. “We had those items on the agenda and a few others (to discuss),” said Nxumalo. When contacted for comment, he said they did not want the meeting to be a mudslinging match. Mantashe added: “We agreed to develop a comprehensive agenda and to be focused and not to be all over the place. We also wanted to avoid a bilateral that becomes a mudslinging (exercise)." The last meeting between the ANC and SACP was in March before Zuma reshuffled his cabinet. The SACP came out guns blazing, saying Zuma had relied on a dubious intelligence report to fire finance minister Pravin Gordhan and his deputy Mcebisi Jonas. Mantashe said a date for another meeting between the two parties had not yet been set “but it will be held soon”. Political analysts have warned that there won’t be any “fruitful meetings” between the two parties in the lead-up to the ANC elective conference in December. Wits University political analyst Susan Booysen said the fact that the alliance partners couldn't agree on the agenda was the “worst kind of indictment on the Zuma 
presidency”. “This is seriously bad and is an indication of what the ANC has come to in the time of Jacob Zuma. “In fact, for all political purposes there is no alliance anymore,” she added. Booysen said the SACP’s demands were “reasonable and find widespread resonance in society”. Another political analyst, Dumisani Hlophe, said the meeting between the two parties was “not going to work”. “The SACP doesn’t recognise the leadership of (Zuma). Between now and December, there won’t be any fruitful alliance meetings of any sort. The relationship between the two organisations is hostile because of that no-confidence vote in President Zuma by the SACP,” he said. Hlophe said even if the SACP was comfortable with Zuma’s deputy Cyril Ramaphosa, “the fact that Zuma is ANC president practically means he (Zuma) would have to attend a meeting of that nature”. Had it gone ahead Monday’s meeting would have been the first between the leadership of the ANC and SACP following their respective conferences in July in Gauteng, where a number of resolutions were taken. Nzimande, who is also Higher Education and Training Minister, used the conference to launch a blistering attack on Zuma and accused him of betrayal. He told conference delegates that some of his comrades who he worked with to remove Thabo Mbeki as ANC president in 2007 had one motive in mind - to loot the public purse. “We feel betrayed. Personally, I feel betrayed,” Nzimande had said.