Regional spokesperson Teboho Joala dismissed the allegations, made in a letter by the party’s former administrator Tumi Matila, as propaganda. “Some of the contents have changed from the original letter we saw in 2014/15,” he said. The issues raised in the letter were thoroughly addressed by the national and provincial structures as part of the ANC internal processes, Joala said. Anyone aggrieved by how the matter was handled could utilise party processes to seek recourse. The allegations were detailed in a letter Matila wrote to the ANC’s top brass, including deputy secretary-general Jessie Duarte, in 2015. At the time Duarte referred the matter to the party's provincial structure. In it, Matila fingered regional secretary Paul Mojapelo and party leader Kgosientso Ramokgopa as principal role players behind a move to remove the names of those perceived to be against them from branch memberships. Last week, the letter resurfaced on the social media group of the Tshwane Alliance Forum, which included SACP, ANC and Cosatu members, setting tongues wagging. In the letter, Matila forewarned the ANC that failure to urgently address the situation could lead to the party losing its grip on power in the municipality. This prediction came true when the ANC surrendered control of the city to a DA-led coalition last year. “I am writing this letter to the senior leadership to intervene before it is too late; before the rot costs us the city and permanently costs us dedicated ANC membership." Matila claimed he was used by Mojapelo to expunge names of comrades deemed to be against the regional leaders from branches before the regional conferences. For example, he'd be instructed by Mojapelo to purge comrades and remove their memberships from ANC branch files, he wrote. “I have worked very closely with the current regional secretary and have discharged all instructions given to me, even those that led to organisational paralysis, purging of members and a removal of thousands of memberships from ANC branch files as well as signature campaigns,” he stated. He lamented what he called the “signature campaign” in which branch members would be made to sign branch general meetings registers despite them not having attended such meetings. He claimed some members would be followed to their houses, workplaces, hotels and restaurants to allow them to put down their signatures. The worst was when members would go to the regional office to sign branch general meetings attendance registers, he alleged. Matila said regional staff under the instructions of Mojapelo assisted members to sign registers out of fear of losing their jobs. “For instance, in Ward 49 I was assigned to go with the regional chairperson for the purposes of the launch. The branch did not reach a quorum fewer than 30 people attended the launch. As a result we left the attendance register and the package with the branch secretary so that they can fill it and bring it to the regional office,” he claimed. He singled out the Centurion zone as the worst with the practice. It was there where he was compelled by party spokesperson Joala to hand over party “attendance registers and packages for him to fill in”, he alleged. He said he had attended a few intervention meetings where he heard regional leaders “factually misleading the national deployees”. He said Mojapelo “lied about the electronic membership system the region was implementing to curb” the practice. Matila yesterday told the Pretoria News that the practice still persisted in the ANC. He proposed that the ANC structures in Tshwane and the province be disbanded and be replaced by new leadership. Despite the rot in the regional structure, he said he still harboured hope that the situation would one day change. “I have not lost hope because the ANC has historically been able to clean itself,” Matila added.