Attempts were also made to bribe and influence foreign journalists. It was all part of the WHAM strategy - to “win hearts and minds”. It fell apart because of a public-spirited whistle blower and courageous reporting by Mervyn Rees and Chris Day, and journalists at Rand Daily Mail. Fast forward to today and there are some remarkable parallels. Since 1993 there have been suggestions that the ANC was considering establishing a newspaper. The government wanted the media to be less critical, more “patriotic”, and this was emphasised by Jacob Zuma at the ANC’s Bloemfontein conference in July 2008 when he said: “Newspapers have by now had almost 15 years to inform the public. Their actions do not reflect their words. “Our observation is that they do not inform on progress in the country. If you look at the columns and pages, it is sensational and it is not balanced. “When you read what the clever media people write, you wonder whether they are describing the organisation you belong to. Newspapers twist the truth in their headlines. It causes damage. It is unfair reporting Why should the ANC not start a newspaper to inform our citizens?” There was no need for the government to proceed because the Gupta-managed (and indirectly government-funded) media, The New Age and ANN7 TV channel, filled the breach. The Guptas claimed that they founded The New Age newspaper “not for the money” but because they were “just trying to do what is best for South Africans” and would “support the government of the day at all levels”. The circulation figures for The New Age are not reviewed by the Audit Bureau of Circulation. In 2013, it was estimated that 76% of The New Age’s advertising revenue was from government departments and parastatals. In 2014, cash-strapped Eskom spent R43million on The New Age aligned projects. Jane Duncan, professor of journalism, argued that “there’s a non-transparent channelling of government advertising to prop up a media outlet that is now very clearly acting as a propaganda arm for the Guptas and the support for the Presidency and in return, the Presidency’s support for the Guptas”. As the complex web of intrigue about the Gupta operations unravels and respectable national and international banks cut ties, they are forced to consider their options for their various companies. And so the chosen one for The New Age and ANN7 is Mzwanele Manyi, former controversial government spokesperson: “Indians have bargained their way to the top”; “oversupply of coloured people in the Western Cape”. This should not be surprising as in May 2014 Manyi had sent his CV to the Guptas, and he proudly defended his association with the family. It was clear that Manyi anticipated continued state support for his newly acquired media entities, which was the “best representation of RET”. Manyi stated that “vendor funding” was used for the R450million transaction, which he described as a “good story”. According to Legalvision: “Vendor financing involves a loan agreement between vendor (seller) and purchaser under which the vendor of a business agrees to lend some or all of the purchase price of the business to the purchaser buying the business.” The terms and conditions are normally flexible and relaxed. However, Business Day reported that in October 2015 a valuation of Infinity Media Networks (which housed the media interests of Oakbay Investments) by accounting firm Cajee Razak & Associates estimated on a “fair market” basis that “the present value of future earnings (was) at R52m for the value of the business enterprise and R41m for 100% equity value”. Non-governmental Organisation Save SA has argued that since “most of the (Gupta) family’s money has been siphoned from the public purse, they are effectively using dirty public money to hand over an asset from one rogue business to another and using a questionable financial model to do so”. According to the EFF, “Manyi will continue the business of fake news and reporting that characterises the Gupta media empire”. According to Mahatma Gandhi, the “freedom of the press is a precious privilege that no country can forego”. Thomas Jefferson, third president of the US, once famously said “Were it left to me to decide whether we should have a government without newspapers or newspapers without government, I should not hesitate for a moment to prefer the latter”. Former president Nelson Mandela argued that a “critical, independent and investigative press is the lifeblood of any democracy ”. There is no evidence that Manyi’s new media acquisitions will pass this litmus test. Off course, Manyi could shock sceptics and initiate a public campaign against state capture and corruption.  Brij Maharaj is a geography professor at UKZN. He writes in his personal capacity.