This level of forgiveness is epitomised by Siphiwe Shongwe or Ma Shongwe, as she’s affectionately known, an Ekurhuleni woman who lived in a shack for roughly 20 years, despite owning an RDP house. Worse for Ma Shongwe, she said, was that she didn’t even know she owned the house in Tsakane Extension 11. The Star (sister newspaper of the Pretoria News) published a series of reports on Shongwe’s struggles since 2010, when she found out she owned a house. This was when a financial institution informed her that she had been blacklisted for a municpal debt of more than R16000. According to the City of Ekurhuleni, this debt now stands at R24410. The 51-year-old’s ordeal, however, seems to be coming to an end, as she was recently given a new low-cost house in Tsakane Extension 22 by the Gauteng Department of Human Settlements. Ekurhuleni spokesperson Themba Gadebe said the debt that Shongwe incurred because the RDP house was registered in her name, will be transferred to the current occupants of the house, as the debt had been accumulated by them. Ma Shongwe said she has forgiven the municipality and did not resent the occupants of the house that should have been hers. “I believe that, like me, the occupants of my old house don’t have another home that they can go to if they were to be removed from the house,” she said. “I’m a person who empathises with other people, because I would also like people to empathise with me. "They did not intentionally defraud me in this matter,” said Ma Shongwe. They told her that the house had been sold to them by a former ward councillor who they named, she said. That councillor is now the chairperson of the council’s ethics and integrity committee. Phillip de Lange, leader of the DA caucus in Ekurhuleni, said the fraudulent sale of RDP houses in Ekurhuleni “was rife”. The DA is calling for a judicial commission of inquiry into of fraud around the buying and selling of low-cost houses. He called on victims, like Ma Shongwe, to come forward so corruption could be exposed.