This is according to statistician-general Dr Pali Lehohla, who released a report on the country’s examination of absolute poverty trends between 2006 and 2015. “Education has the potential to eradicate poverty and minimise the impact of the triple challenges of poverty, unemployment and inequality. There is an undeniable relationship between poverty and education,” he said. Lehohla said studies had shown that the higher a person’s qualifications, the more likely they were to be employed and be absorbed into the formal labour force, and therefore less susceptible to fall into poverty. He said: “Studies have shown that a headcount of 79.2% individuals with no formal education were poor compared to only 8.4% of individuals who had a post-matric qualification in 2015. “This shows that without education you will remain poor, and with the majority of the country uneducated, the scourge of poverty is far from over.” The report also showed that the most vulnerable to poverty in society were children between birth and 17 years of age, were females, were black Africans and were people living in rural areas. Lehohla said children were the biggest majority affected by poverty: “Children are poor because they live in poor households and if a child is poor it means they cannot go to, or do well in, school. And if they do not go to school they are more likely to remain poor. “There has been a poverty gap decrease of 43.8% in 2006 to 35.2% in 2015, and the gap values highlight that not only are children more likely to be poor, but they are residing in households that are further away from the poverty line,” he said. Lehohla said: “The incidence of poverty for households headed by black Africans has always been higher than the national rate. In 2006, 62.4% of black African-headed households were living below the upper-bound poverty line. “Coloured-headed households had the second highest incidence of poverty in the country,” he said. Lehohla said the country should be worried about the study findings, because if children were poor and uneducated, the situation threatened the future of the country. He further said the poverty headcount for most provinces had increased between 2011 and 2015. However, Limpopo, the Eastern Cape and KwaZulu-Natal remained the three poorest provinces in the country. Limpopo recorded the highest poverty headcount for 2006, 2009 and 2011. “Provinces with the least share of poverty were Northern Cape and Free State.” He said that as poverty continued to bite in most parts of the country, more people migrated to Gauteng and the Western Cape, and that was likely to increase. With the dim prospects of opportunity in the other seven provinces, the developed two had to brace for more inhabitants. “So migration is a given, and the tempo will increase. In fact, you will see more poverty in the urban areas as urbanisation creates more poverty for the modern centres,” said Lehohla.