This is the view of Meldah Leshalabe, an inmate at the Kgosi Mampuru II Correctional Centre. Leshalabe was speaking yesterday when MEC of Community Safety Sizakele Nkosi-Malobane and pupils from schools around the CBD and Atteridgeville visited the prison. She pleaded with schoolgirls around the city not to walk down the road she and many of her fellow inmates had been led down. She said she accepted that she now had the responsibility to turn her life around, and making even the slightest difference in that of youngsters heading down the same road she had, gave her a sense of meaning. “I walked through these gates believing the words of a man who told me that God made me to be the best fraudster, but I now know that my purpose is much bigger than that. All I want is for these children to make the right choices,” she said. “Every time I see a child crying when I speak to them I know it has nothing to do with being afraid of prison or that the inmates scare them It is because the message we give them touched them somewhere deep inside,” said the inmate. Leshalabe said although the department told her that rehabilitation was a societal responsibility, she firmly believed that it was an individual choice. Nkosi-Malobane said they had decided to take the pupils to interact with the female inmates to deter and educate them, and let them know that should they continue behaving the same way they could end up in a correctional facility just like this one. Nkosi-Malobane advised the pupils: “Avoid drugs because once opened it is a door you might not be able to close again. Take responsibility for your actions, confront your dark side and please abstain from sex for as long as you can.” She added that the government wanted to amend laws governing access to offenders’ criminal records as it had been earmarked as one stumbling block in their reintegration into society. Some people were using criminal records to unfairly discriminate against ex-offenders and prevent them from acquiring employment. Through the Get Out Stay Out programme, Nkosi-Malobane wanted to encourage inmates to use their time in incarceration acquiring skills which they could use to get jobs and not commit crime upon their release.