Strife-riven Brazil, Russia, India and China (Bric) are more risky allies than Zuma reckoned when in 2010 he accepted Beijing’s invitation to join the club. “I was poisoned and almost died just because South Africa joined Bric under my leadership,” Zuma told ANC supporters at Phongolo, KwaZulu-Natal on Sunday. He offered no proof for the claim. Recall the 2001 rationale offered by Goldman Sachs’s chief economist Jim O’Neill: “It seems quite clear that the current G7 needs to be upgraded and room made for the Brics in order to allow more effective global policy-making.” Last year, just after Goldman Sachs had closed its main Bric investment fund, O’Neill asked “How can South Africa be economically in the same class?” However, he conceded, “Politically, it is very important that South Africa is part of Brics.” That’s the opposite impression Zuma is communicating about Western multinational corporations and governments. He complained to another ANC audience last November: Westerners “want to dismantle Brics. We have had seven votes of no-confidence in South Africa. In Brazil, the president was removed.” Such paranoia is regularly expressed in ANC circuits, including during an SAfm radio debate last week with National Union of Mineworkers deputy president Joseph Montisetsi. He remarked on multinational mining houses’ exploitation of workers, their illicit financial flows and their lack of reinvestment. But then Montisetsi claimed these firms aim “to stop the South African community because of their choice of politics. These things are done everywhere, especially in Brics countries - those countries that want an alternative kind of government which will have a kind of a bank which is contrary to the World Bank and International Monetary Fund”. In reality, the NDB has a strong relationship with the World Bank, cemented by last September’s Memo of Understanding. The NDB’s 2017-21 Strategy document commits “to undertake joint projects and knowledge exchanges with the World Bank to make the most of their decades of experience.” Brics’s $100 billion Contingent Reserve Arrangement strengthens the IMF by insisting that once a borrower takes 30% of its quota. For example, $3bn for South Africa), then before it can access the next 70% it must get an IMF structural adjustment programme. South Africa’s foreign debt exceeds $143bn - nearly 50% of gross domestic product, a modern local record - and has left various commentators either advocating or opposing IMF lending and advice in recent days. Aren’t Brics making the IMF fairer? Four gained voting power increases in last year’s restructuring - China (up 37%), Brazil (23%), India (11%) and Russia (8%) - but only as a result of eight African countries (including South Africa and Nigeria) losing between 21-41% of their IMF votes. Though the NDB African Regional Centre’s new director-general has not yet been announced, the job is a hot potato. It was the fig-leaf excuse Zuma gave in December 2015 for firing Finance Minister Nhlanhla Nene, who spurned the supposed offer. Until last week, the  local director serving the NDB was Tito Mboweni of Goldman Sachs, but then, in his own words, he was “Fired, you might say!!” (Instead of a customary roll-over, he was replaced by Treasury director-general and former World Bank board member Dondo Mogajane.) The NDB lends Eskom funds for renewable energy transmission connections to privatised solar and wind projects. Yet neither of the former Eskom leaders who negotiated the loans - Brian Molefe and Matshela Koko - desired renewable energy, favouring nuclear instead. “Energy experts in South Africa believe the NDB is not happy with Eskom because it has earmarked a large chunk of the $180million loan for projects not related to renewable energy,” reported Peter Fabricius of the Institute for Security Studies recently. “The highly controversial Molefe’s indifference to renewable energy suggested to many that he had already signed up to Zuma’s dubious nuclear project” - whose cost is estimated at $100bn- leaving “great suspicion that Zuma has already promised the construction contract to Russian President Vladimir Putin”. Can South Africa afford NDB credits? The real interest rate on the dollar-denominated loans depends upon currency devaluation: South Africa’s crashed from R6.3/$ in 2011 to R13.4/$ today. As NDB chief executive KV Kamath admitted to Russia Today last month, “Tthe effective costs of borrowing in hard currencies, for any of us developing countries, appears low. It appears to be 2% to 2.5%. But when you add the exchange loss, the weakening of the currency over time, you end up paying 12%, 13%, 14%. That’s your true cost.” Kamath then committed to future lending in Chinese renminbi, Indian rupees, Brazilian reals, and Russian rubles - notably neglecting the South African rand. Next month, Brics heads will gather in Xiamen, China, for its annual summit.