The midwives at Bidi Bidi Reception Health Centre III said the numbers can reach up to 300 mothers a month. These mothers, mostly South Sudanese, are being treated by only two midwives. As more and more South Sudanese are fleeing conflict in their country, the UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) announced yesterday that more than 1million South Sudanese have crossed into Uganda since the fighting started in 2013. The refugee agency gave warning that the number of the refugees is swelling while service provision is dwindling. Uganda needs $674million (R8.9billion) to take care of South Sudanese refugees this year, but only 21% has so far been raised. “The funding shortfall in Uganda is now significantly impacting on the abilities to deliver life-saving aid and key basic services,” the refugee agency said. Across settlements in northern Uganda, health clinics are being forced to provide vital medical care with few doctors, healthcare workers and medicines. Schooling is also being negatively affected. Class sizes often exceed 200 pupils, with some lessons held in the open air. Many refugee children, the agency says, are dropping out as the nearest schools are too far away for them to access easily. The Ugandan government has previously argued that it is overwhelmed by the numbers and the international community should come to its aid. The UN and Uganda held a fundraising conference in June in a bid to raise money to deal with the rising numbers. According to UNHCR, the countries that have pledged funds and those that so far have not are being urged to raise the money. Meanwhile, some refugees sayt that the food rations donated by the World Food Programme have now been reduced. “The food I get from WFP can only last two weeks instead of one month. The food is very little,” Sourur Kinyaka said at Bidi Bidi Refugee Settlement. In South Sudan, troops loyal to President Salva Kiir and forces under former vice-president Riek Machar have battled each other since late 2013, killing tens of thousands and forcing nearly a third of the population of 12million to flee their homes. The UN says homes have been burnt with families locked inside, gang rapes are common and boys are often kidnapped to be child soldiers. Gunmen, including South Sudanese rebels, rob those trying to escape, the agency says. Internationally sponsored efforts to stop the fighting in South Sudan have so far proved unsuccessful.