Pretoria - Workers of the South African Bank Note Company want their bosses at the South African Reserve Bank to subsidise their medical aid as promised and increase their wages. They marched to the Reserve Bank yesterday, taking longer than intended due to a taxi strike in the CBD. When they got there, they said they had grievances and would not work unless these were addressed. Shop steward Moses Fikile Mane read from a memorandum: “Medical aid is a condition of employment at our company, but amazingly the Reserve Bank is not subsidising under the false pretext of total guaranteed packages. “Reserve Bank employees are subsidised for medical aid, and there is no logic in that we aren’t.” He said the workers were also not happy with their salaries. “The company is offering workers a 6.6% wage increase yet we are demanding 8.5%, but that is negotiable.” “Other problems are salary disparities which are not attended to. People who are performing the same job are not necessarily getting the same remuneration.” Mane said employees were also calling on the Bank Note Company’s board members to resign as they were failing to execute their mandate. Employee Mpho Monkoe said the Reserve Bank had been promising workers changes to the medical aid subsidy for five years, but had done nothing. “The biggest issue that brings us here is the medical aid subsidy issue; we have been promised that we will only pay half for our medical aid since 2012 but they still deduct the full amount which is R300, instead of R150,” said Monkoe. “Also on the issue of payment we do not get paid equal amounts; others get R10000 and I get R5000 but we perform the same duties. This is totally unfair and it affects our work relationship badly because if I know you earn more than I do then I won’t like you as my colleague.” The Reserve Bank’s chief operating officer, Morgan Pillay, received the memorandum. He assured the protesters it would reach the intended authorities and their demands would be responded to. Pretoria News