A pertinent question is whether the challenges we are facing in the water and sanitation sector would have been to this extent had women played a role. The answer is that the sector would be streets ahead compared to what it is now. The test against which everything was measured has been found wanting in many respects, including and, importantly, in the water and sanitation sector. We must therefore admit that it has been foolhardy on the part of men to consign the role of women in water and sanitation to only being collectors of the resource. The essentialist view that promoted the perception of women as possessing inherent and unchanging traits that separate women from men has dug serious potholes in the road of the sector to move to stability and success. The exclusion of women from the sector has thus successfully failed to take into account the fact that investment in women is one of the fundamental investments we can make to address the triple challenge of poverty, inequality and unemployment. The obvious result of this investment would have, in turn, brought about the triple benefits of growth, prosperity and international competitiveness. Ironically, it is the very women said to be the lifeblood of the water and sanitation sector business who are conspicuous by their absence, thanks largely to reasons associated with issues of patriarchy than any sound logic. This is disturbing considering that women are at the forefront of doing the hard work of transporting and cleaning water while management and distribution is considered the preserve of males. It is in light of this that the Department of Water and Sanitation came up with the Women in Water Entrepreneurship Incubator Programme to foster inclusivity in the water and sanitation sector. Through this programme the department will this month be facilitating a safe and supportive environment for new entrepreneurs, targeting especially the previously disadvantaged groups to start up and sustain their businesses and to help them access available opportunities. In this context, women involvement in the sector has a knock-on effect on social matters, most specifically food security. Much has been said about access of women to land to enable them eke out a livelihood. However, this remains only a daydream without women also becoming a significant player in the sector. Access to land without access to water is a futile exercise. This then amounts to nothing more than the perpetuation of victimisation and exclusion of women. Equally true, difficulties in water control and use, together with the lack of maintenance of the hydraulic infrastructure, leading to hydraulic systems losing the efficiency needed is a critical area in which women could and should play a pivotal role. The human and material resources that women can provide could assist the sector to achieve adequate control of water as the technical surveillance of the hydraulic work and system is at the core of facilitating its economic progress. Thus, moving forward the department seeks to break the glass ceiling by integrating women into the sector. This will be done through meaningful partnerships to transfer skills and experience in the critical areas of operations and maintenance. Minister of Water and Sanitation Nomvula Mokonyane lamented the exclusion of women from the sector during her speech at the Women in Water Incubator Programme, saying women should dispense with the role of being drawers of water but must become major players in the sector. Minister Mokonyane said: “We want to shake up the water and sanitation sector to say that women are not just those who must go and collect water from the rivers and bring water that you share with animals. They must be suppliers of pipes. They must manage reservoirs and help us to look after this scarce resource. It is about making women part of the entire water and sanitation value chain.” Accordingly, as we celebrate Women’s Month, the imperative should be to get women to actively participate in the sector. This is even more urgent today because of the calamitous drought that continues to afflict the country. Until we are prepared to carve out a significant part for women in the sector, we are facing the likelihood to live in a country affected by chronic shortages of fresh water by 2050. *  Sithole is a communicator in the Department of Water and Sanitation (Gauteng Region)