The property, located in Muckleneuk, was previously used as a mayoral residential house. It was recently decided by the administration that the property was no longer required for this purpose. During his inaugural State of the Capital address, executive mayor Solly Msimanga announced that the proceeds from the subject property, measuring 2 478m² in extent, would be used to build houses for previously disadvantaged individuals. The latest valuation report indicates that the property can be sold for a minimum amount of R5million, despite the R12million misused on dodgy renovations by the previous ANC administration. “Given the market value of the property, it is unlikely that we will recoup the money wasted on exorbitant questionable renovations. However, the mayoral mansion is no longer needed for municipal purposes," said Msimanga. “The sale will generate income for the city that can be utilised to augment other basic municipal services such as decent housing opportunities and to improve the capital city's financial sustainability. “We reassure our residents that this proposed sale is being dealt with in accordance with the legislative framework. "Also, that the sale is being done with the consideration of the economic and community value to be received in exchange for the property.” In determining the market value of the property, the city appointed an independent valuations services company which used direct comparison to determine the value of the property. Direct comparison is the usage of recent indicative market transactions in the subject area as guidelines to establish a market-related value for the subject property.The company researched a number of residential property sales in the area and the surrounding neighbourhood and suburbs. The property is a single residential dwelling accommodating a total of five bedrooms, two en-suite bathrooms, two additional full bathrooms, two separate guest toilets, entrance foyer, dining room, lounge, TV room, family room, scullery, pantry and a fully fitted kitchen with built-in cupboards throughout. There is also a study on the ground floor with two outside staff rooms. Msimanga said the administration was pleased to be getting rid of the mayoral mansion to free up funds to deliver better services and housing to residents.