The healers voiced their support for the so-called dagga couple, Jules Stobbs and Myrtle Clarke, who are fighting for dagga to be legalised. They join various groups that  had demonstrated outside the court since the trial started. The Gauteng Social Development Department indicated it was funding anti-cannabis protests. Among the healers was Nelisiwe Mkhabela, who said: “Dagga is one of the traditional herbs used to heal different illnesses.” Cannabis could treat the respiratory, gastrointestinal, and central nervous systems, she said. It could also be used on patients suffering from blood pressure issues, allergies, cancer, coughs, diarrhoea, headache, back pain, arthritis, asthma and and other diseases. “If it gets to be legalised it will be easier to use the herb to heal society. "Other healers actually smoke it as well,” said Mkhabela. Traditional healers had rallied behind the call for legalisation as they wanted to be able to use it freely without fear of being arrested. Mkhabela and other traditional healers handed out pamphlets to pedestrians opposite the court with the message: “It does not only heal the body but also heals your soul”, referring to dagga. Their action coincide with the African Traditional Medicine Month commemoration. After the trial was postponed, Stobbs said they were trying to come up with new strategies for the next court date. After initial delays surrounding live coverage of the trial, it eventually got under way a few weeks ago before Judge Natvarlal Ranchod. The delay was also due to an application to have “irrelevant expert annexes, summaries and articles” struck out. British psychiatrist and neuropsychopharmacologist David Nutt, as well as Dr Raquel Peyraube, a specialist in problematic use of drugs from Uruguay, are among the experts who have testified to date. The State is opposing the bid to have the ban on dagga lifted and it has filed 4 000 pages of documents. Early this year, Judge Dennis Davis issued a judgment in the Western Cape High Court declaring invalid the legislation banning the use of the plant by adults in the privacy of their own homes. He gave Parliament 24 months to change laws that were inconsistent with the constitutional right to privacy. But the dagga couple’s legal bid goes much further. Clarke said Judge Davis’s judgment ticked the first box, but the fight to legalise cannabis had just begun. Trading in cannabis is one of the aspects the couple are fighting for, as they believe it did not make sense to be able to use it when you could not sell or grow it.