Those words ring true in how I have observed our daily lives and even in close relations like family. We tend to blame the ones born before us for what we lack or for what we think they should have done for the betterment of our lives as the generation that succeeds them. However there is a generation of schoolchildren in Pretoria that inspire me so much. Last year this time, the young, bold and fierce Zulaikha Patel and her classmates at Pretoria High School for Girls challenged their headmistress and the school management over the implementation of a hair policy. “Asking me to change my hair is like asking me to erase my blackness,” she was quoted as saying as she led girls in a protest that made headlines, gained traction and got everybody talking. Last week pupils from Hoërskool Pretoria-Wes staged a protest of their own, demanding the right to wear tight fitting pants to school, instead of the common grey school uniform cut. It may not have reached the same level, but it follows a similar trend of pupils voicing their concerns. The pupils who want to wear slim-fit pants to school say their uniform is a remnant of apartheid and an infringement on their rights. The school governing body will take a vote on the issue at a later date. To many there are much bigger issues concerning pupils and schools than a “mere” uniform. But I actually believe those kids have a point. I am really inspired by these young ones. They give me hope that in the near future we will have young people who are not going to blame a generation before them, but face the challenges of their generation head on. Bold is what they are. They are not about shifting blame, asking of those who came before them why they did nothing about certain situations. This fearless crop of youngsters is fighting for what they believe in. This reminds me of the pupils from back home, north of the city. Over the past two years of attending meetings at my younger brother’s school, I heard the teacher who is responsible for uniform saying: “Boys at this school wear three-quarter (length) trousers (instead of full-length).” She pleaded with parents and guardians to ask the children to wear the regulation full-length school trousers. Some children spend more than 10 hours of their day in their school uniforms. As a generation that keeps up with the times and wants to look fashionable in clothes that they wear the whole day, some minor changes (regulated of course) surely can’t be all that bad? Instead, I believe, one should be looking at how to accommodate them. Three-quarter pants are the in-thing and young people want to look relevant and trendy, even in something as dull as a school uniform. Just like the pupils from Hoërskool Pretoria-Wes, it is about keeping with the times. Fashion is part of our everyday lives, especially to millennials. Schools need to keep up with a generation that is more liberal and expressive than their parents. Their Codes of Conduct are stringent in areas that could allow some freedom, without turning the school into a circus. Whether we agree that what they are doing is right or wrong, they are exercising their rights. They’re putting forward their grievances, they’re expressing their unhappiness with something that affects them. And that is not frivolous. They are showing character, courage, boldness, modern revolution and relentlessness in challenging and changing the status quo. I will be the first to confess, I used to take my school shirts to my aunt (she is a tailor) to get them to be proper slim-fits. I may not have had the courage to mobilise fellow schoolmates to ask for slim-fits for everyone. But myself and many other boys and girls altered our shirts. It was a big deal for us. The issue of hair and school uniform affects the self-esteem and image of children, and it is important to acknowledge that. They could perform badly because of how awkward they feel in their uniform, and on the flip side, they could feel so confident and self assured in their uniform that they become the best they could be. We cannot continue to preserve old-school rituals and codes that were adopted in the 1970s, 80s or 90s when we are dealing with "born-frees". A lot has to change to accommodate them in as much as we still need to keep order in the classroom. Let’s hear them out, find the generational gaps and then find solutions, even if in the end it means that we maintain the uniformity of school dress, but those wearing it need to be heard. Rendering their concerns foolish or unimportant is detrimental. And we don’t get to deal with current issues for their currency, we are always caught between how we used to do things and how we are doing them. Another line from Mike and the Mechanics’ song goes: “so we open up a quarrel between the present and the past. We only sacrifice the future. It’s the bitterness that lasts”. Kabelo Chabalala is the founder of the Young Men Movement. Email,kabelo03chabalala@gmail.com; Twitter, @KabeloJay; Facebook, Kabelo Chabalala.