This was one of the topics discussed during the first annual Action Indaba on Gender Based Violence and Protection of Vulnerable Groups hosted by the SAPS in the city yesterday. Participants blamed the TV for construction of patriarchy on many levels, among them being the attraction that excludes women in social contact and public affairs. The entertainment portrayed women as trivial, irrational and incapable. Television also promotes women to be good wives and loving mothers. The two-day indaba wants to create opportunities for engagements in the fight against gender based violence. Speaking at the event, Police Minister Fikile Mbalula appealed to media practitioners to portray stories that encouraged respect and love for women and girl children. He said police needed all the help they could possibly get to combat gender crime violence, and media was one of them. Mbalula added that media played an important role in society. “I am requesting that we start to write screenplays, stories and media articles that encourage respect and love for women and girl children,” he said. Many of the most popular TV programmes with high viewership ratings reinforced the misogynistic, patriarchal, men-power-wielding customs, portraying women in a bad light or as witches and so on. “These violent images against women, the reinforcement of witchcraft as a real thing, all bears real results. We are then left with problems like the organ harvesting criminality of people with albinism,” said Mbalula. He said television had to promote harmonious lifestyles that accept the gay community. Reiterating Mbalula’s sentiments was United Nations Children’s Fund’s Goodwill Ambassador Yvonne Chaka Chaka, who said gender roles,existed solely because society as a whole chose to accept them, but they were perpetuated by the media. She said conspicuous viewers had to be aware of what the media presented to them, and make sure they were not actively participating in a culture of oppression. “Rape culture is perpetuated through the use of misogynistic language, the objectification of women’s bodies, and the glamorization of sexual violence, thereby creating a society that disregards women’s rights and safety,” said Chaka Chaka.