The difficulty begins with the “grudge buys”: staple foods, cleaning products and all the other less glamorous necessities of everyday life. Advertisers usually try to overcome our lack of enthusiasm for these by linking them to deeper needs for love, sex or affirmation. The result is that car tyres are marketed by teenagers in skirts shorter than the heels of their strappy sandals, while tinned soups are shown being served to appreciative families by full-time mothers in frilly aprons. The last image, in particular, harnesses the emotional power of nostalgia, the longing we all feel when remembering (or usually misremembering) past happiness. Our hunger for idealised images of beauty or family life explains some of the anger expressed over the British ASA’s recent recommendation that advertisements that reinforce “outdated or stereotypical views on gender roles in society” should be far more strictly controlled. Some argue that since our daily lives show us that few people look like supermodels and contemporary women are more likely to be working long hours outside the home than to be cooking a Sunday roast every week, it is surely unnecessary to deprive people of the simple pleasure of viewing an erotically-charged glossy image or the feelings of fuzzy warmth inspired by representations of fifties-style family life? Unfortunately, we pay a high price for these moments of emotional arousal. A good advertisement doesn’t pass through our minds as quickly as it flickers across a screen. Instead it can create an enduring sense of loss that isn’t removed, even when we buy that tin of soup or those new tyres. Eventually our frustrated need for things we can’t buy begins to fill us with either self-loathing or contempt for our seemingly inadequate partners. Contrary to popular opinion, the use of stereotypes in advertising is not simply a women’s issue. For every young girl vomiting in pursuit of waif-like proportions, there is a young boy taking steroids in pursuit of a six-pack. For every girl learning that maths is not for her, there is a boy taunted for taking ballet classes. For every woman shown caring for a sick child, a man is shown suffering from what is jeeringly called “man flu”. These images create prescriptive brands of femininity and masculinity that mark almost every one of us as inadequate in some way. In a country with one of the highest rates of sexual violence in the world, I believe we need to think harder than most about gender stereotypes. Ultimately, advertisers don’t control us. We control them. It’s time to use our power by refusing to respond positively to images that sexualise adolescents, insult women’s intelligence or ridicule masculine weakness. In short, it is time for us to sell advertisers new dreams. Professor Molly Brown is head of the Department of English at Pretoria University