In line with the implementation of our mandate as stipulated in Section 205 of the constitution, as the South African Police Service (SAPS) we are committed to improving our services to the victims of crime by ensuring we treat them with respect and dignity whenever they visit our police stations to report crime. Victims have the right to a victim-friendly service and if the victim doesn’t receive such a service from the police, the victim’s rights have been violated. The victims of crime have the following rights: The right to be treated with respect and dignity. The right to give information. The right to receive information. The right to protection. The right to assistance. At our police stations we ensure the privacy of a gender-based violence-related crime is protected by interviewing the victim in a Victim Friendly Room (VFR). Where there are no designated victim-friendly facilities, alternative arrangements are made to ensure the privacy and dignity of the victim. This is in line with SAPS National Instruction 2 of 2012. In terms of this instruction, members are required to provide any practical assistance within the police mandate. This includes providing information and referring victims to seek further assistance such as counselling services, and legal, medical, social and psychological assistance that may be available in the area. We offer victim-friendly service to ensure we do not infringe on the rights of victims as any action that is contrary to this may subject the victim to secondary victimisation. So far the SAPS managed to establish 1 047 designated victim-friendly facilities at our police stations across the country to accommodate and assist victims. The SAPS strives at all times to provide maximum capacity to deal with gender-based violence and vulnerable groups. There are currently 176 Family Violence, Child Protection and Sexual Offences (FCS) Units nationwide which is a specialist investigations environment established to deal with gender-based violent crimes including sexual offences. Training is provided to members of the police to equip them with skills in victim empowerment, domestic violence and sexual offences and to enable them to treat victims of crime with courtesy, fairness and professionalism. In instances where the person is a victim of rape, we are required to enable a victim to be interviewed by a trained police officer who, if possible, is the same gender as the victim. This is in consideration of reducing any fears that the victim may experience in a gender-based violence related crime. Our members are also trained to take statements from victims of crime in a professional and sensitive manner. We are required to always ensure the interview or taking of statements are done in the language the victim understands. If the police officer can't speak the victim’s language, he/she will arrange for an interpreter or have the victim interviewed by a member of the police who understands the victim’s language. Investigating officers are obliged to give regular feedback to the victim of crime on the progress of the investigation. A victim has the right to ask for a copy of his/her statement and add to or amend the statement. If this in not forthcoming, the victim may bring this to the attention of the detective or station commander. Victims who do not receive victim-friendly service and are not treated with fairness, respect and dignity are encouraged to report this as it is not acceptable and should be prevented at all costs. Major-General Tebello Constance Mosikili is Component Head: Family Violence, Child Protection and Sexual Offences Investigation Services of the SAPS