One of those dilemmas is the loose trio. With regular skipper and No 8 Warren Whiteley injured, Coetzee has one specialist No 8 in the Sharks’ physical Dan du Preez, while Cheetahs loose forward Uzair Cassiem, although he can pack down at the back of the scrum, is primarily a flanker. Cassiem, who made his Springbok debut against Wales last year after producing fine outings for the Free State team, hasn’t reached the same heights this season. Dan's twin brother, Jean-Luc du Preez, featured at No 8 along with Siya Kolisi and Jaco Kriel in the loose trio for the Test in Johannesburg in June, but it’s unlikely that Coetzee will consider him there given the other two options. Kolisi, who was last week named as the Bok vice-captain, at this point seems like the only certain inclusion in the back row, and although he was undergoing rehabilitation for the ankle injury he sustained during the Stormers’ Super Rugby quarter-final loss to the Chiefs, he has recovered well and took part in training in the Friendly City last week. The Stormers skipper has been in scintillating form this season, not only with his union, but also for the Boks during their series whitewash over France in June. Then there are Kriel, Jean-Luc du Preez and Oupa Mohoje. In the Test in Durban, Mohoje started at No 7, while Jean-Luc du Preez, who is a natural No 7, replaced him due to injury, so this time around the big question is whether Coetzee will use Jean-Luc du Preez at No 7 - where he has been outstanding this season, or if Mohoje will get the starting nod again. At fullback, the Lions’ Andries Coetzee, Bulls playmaker Warrick Gelant and Sharks star Curwin Bosch offer decent options, while Jesse Kriel can also play in the last line of defence. However, when the squad was announced, Bosch was marked as flyhalf. Coetzee impressed in the Bok No 15 jersey during the series win against the French with his reliable boot and decision-making, while he also added some fine attacking touches. Gelant was good for the Bulls during Super Rugby, but sticking with Coetzee as the starting option seems like the most attractive one. Another position that can be seen as a talking point is the lock pairing and who will partner with captain Eben Etzebeth. Franco Mostert, pictured, has been sensational for the Lions in Super Rugby this season, while Pieter-Steph du Toit struggled. Another option is Lood de Jager. In the front row, it is unclear when Tendai Mtawarira will get some action, his progress with regards to the neck injury he sustained is being monitored by the Springbok staff. Tighthead Frans Malherbe has an opportunity to get into the starting line-up, while Coenie Oosthuizen and Trevor Nyakane are promising prospects.