The colour of my skin isn’t a sign of “not good enough”, It does not scream inadequate, insufficient, incompetent or paltry. The colour of my skin says: excellence, quality, worth, masterly and prowess just to name a few. However, when it comes to black South African celebrities, it looks like the criteria change. Their followers or fans become overnight advocates, they are the judges in the public court and in their eyes, the likes of Bonang, DJ Sbu and many others are to be forgiven for their disparities. Then there is the group that comes out to speak and defend the craft of writing, they do so because they understand the stress that comes with penning a book. It is a craft that needs mastering. Black excellence will not thrive if we want to turn a blind eye on the wrongs of those we deem as role models. Celebrities, at least most celebrities in South Africa, are people we draw inspiration and hope from, that means they have the default responsibility to uphold good morals and a work ethic, most important, they should do their best to promote excellence in all their ventures. Mediocrity is intolerable. It is unacceptable, especially to people who are viewed as celebrities. By the way, “if you seek the limelight, you’d better be ready for the light to shine on every part of your life”. When politicians do wrong, steal money, ask for nude pictures, slap a woman or many of the unspeakable things they do out there, we call for them to be fired, recalled or left out in the cold. But when a book insults a voracious reader like me, because it was authored by a black person, rules do not apply? They too, are public figures. Whether it was written in seTswana, isiZulu, sePedi, or tshiVenda, it has to meet publishing standards. Period! You are basically saying to us, we should support blacks regardless of how wrong or immoral or not up to “standard” their work or approach is? All in the name of being black? Bonang’s book is an example of how not to write a memoir. The criticism is based on quality or lack of quality in the book. The criticism is about the grammatical errors, the lack of editing and proofreading. It is about how that book does not meet the standards of publishing. Moreover, it is because we expect so much from her that we are frustrated and disappointed. By the way, did you know that she can still influence and inspire young people with a well edited book? She can still do all the great work that she is doing without a below par published book. It was an avoidable thing. The same way with DJ Sbu’s stunt at the awards. It could have been avoided. That book should be edited again, proofread and then reprinted. Yes, we promote a lot of mediocrity all in the name of supporting fellow blacks. DJ Sbu broke the rules and “proudly” raised his hand with a tin of the MoFaya cooldrink at the Metro Awards. So, basically what you are saying is this: Do it, do not pay attention to the rules and laws, for as long as you are black, break all the rules to get your way to the top? There is one thing I am all for, irrespective of the colour of our skins: Nobody deserves to be mocked, belittled or treated inhumanely. We don’t know where to draw the line. We make fun of absolutely everything. We find humour in the most sensitive of issues. Perhaps there is so much truth in the Setswana saying: Leso legolo ditshego. Loosely translated it means: One still finds humour even in the most painful situations. If that is the kind of society of young black people you want us to raise, then you are misleading the young people. Lastly, It is the responsibility of the media (news, advertising and marketing) to cover what they have to cover. It is not the media’s fault that good news generally does not trend, it is not the media’s fault that when bad things happen people do not stop talking about it. It is the nature of people and the business. In fact, the primary source of media is the people. Even at our respective homes, you buy a car or a house, they congratulate you for a day, but should you end up in jail, your relatives and neighbours talk about you for years and years. You want us to stand together in promoting mediocrity when it comes to celebrities or public figures? Count me out. The light continues to shine on everything on those who seek the light. Why should they be excused? Because they are black? That is not good enough! When you are black, remember, you represent the majority of South Africans, and we are poor already in many senses. I personally will not appreciate more poor writing and reading. Chabalala is the founder of the Young Men Movement. E-mail kabelo03chabalala@gmail.com, Twitter  @KabeloJay, Facebook Kabelo Chabalala