The two elephants started on the journey from Pretoria to their new home in Mozambique. The bulls were part of an infamous four-member gang, including Tiny Tim and Hotstuff, that had become a menace at the Dinokeng Game Reserve, north of Pretoria. The bulls have, over the past few years, learnt to break fences and caused significant damage inside Dinokeng. The initial translocation was supposed to take place on Tuesday, but was delayed by logistical miscommunication with the Department of Environmental Affairs. The much-awaited operationto relocate them from the reserve started at around 6am as rangers and media braved the cold for a thrilling performance, during which they were located, rounded up and herded in. The Elephants, Rhinos & People team was able to locate the first bull, Lumpy, at around 8am and the co-ordinates were given to the helicopter pilot. Flying low above the elephant, a tranquilliser dart was shot by a vet in the helicopter. The skilled pilot then used the aircraft to steer the elephant towards a more accessible footpath. In less than five minutes the hefty bull was on the floor, causing a cloud of sand as he landed. While it was under anaesthetic, a crane was used to lift him, with ropes tied round his legs and tusks, on to a flat-bed truck. Although it looked a little undignified, that was a tried-and-tested method that had been used for many years. The elephant specialists said did it not hurt the animals. Throughout the procedure, members of the team continuously checked on the condition of Lumpy, including his breathing rate. Once loaded on to the truck Lumpy, who weighed 4.8 tons,was driven to the truck which was about 15km from where he was captured. After being enclosed in the truck Lumpy was then woken up with another dart. Then it was off to Charles, who weighed 6.2 tons and stood 3.3m tall and the same modus operandi followed. Earlier this year one of the bull elephants escaped from Dinokeng and was followed by seven others. It took rangers and volunteers two days to escort the elephants back to the reserve. At that time the elephants had breached the boundaries and were more than 16km away from the reserve, heading towards the densely populated towns of Cullinan and Refilwe. Elephants, Rhinos & People has been at the forefront of protecting elephant bulls at the reserve, and they had stepped in and signed a four-year agreement to manage the animals as a strategic partner to the reserve. The organisation raised funds to relocate the bulls to Zinave National Park in Mozambique in an operation estimated to cost about R650000. Milburn was visibly overwhelmed when he said the team had won half the battle but there was still more to be done. “I will only be at ease once the boys are safe and sound inside Zinave National Park,” he said. A nature reserve spokesman said the truck transporting the elephants could only accommodate two at a time and would drive at a speed of about 40km/*  on the 1250km trip expected to last 40 hours. The remaining two, Tiny Tim and Hot Stuff, will be translocated on Monday.