The tension in Charlottesville came to a head when the decision was made by the city council to remove the statue of Robert Lee, commander of the Confederate Army of Northern Virginia, in February and rename the park in which it stands, Lee Park, to Emancipation Park. Of the opinion that an important part of their heritage and history was under threat, several far right movements organised protests including one entitled “Unite the Right”. These protests featured the likes of the Ku Klux Klan (KKK), the epitome of white supremacy groups, neo-Nazis and other white nationalist groups. On August 12, the far right protesters were met with peaceful counter protesters. The two groups clashed and a member of the far right protesters drove his car into the crowd of counter protesters, killing Heather Heyer, and injuring 19 others. The driver has been identified as James Alex Fields jr  and he has been charged with second-degree murder. The tragic criminal act of taking a person's life and injuring others will hopefully be dealt with swiftly by the justice system. But an additional and fundamental concern is the fact that extremist groups who propagate hate and intolerance continue to exist. This is a major threat to the very fabric of society. To make matters worse, the response from President (Donald) Trump who, at first, could do no more than speak against the violence from “many sides”, also constitutes a major threat to attempts to develop cohesive, open and tolerant societies. Trump generally seems to be averse to criticising any of the extremist right wing groups that supported his election and continue to support him during his tenure in office. It was only after mounting pressure that he decided, on August 14, to condemn racism and publicly denounce the KKK and other neo-Nazis groups. The growing right wing extremism and populism paints a very grim picture. The existence of those who seek to counter such extremism in any way possible must not go unnoticed. For example, the counter protesters in Charlottesville, their actions and presence at the “Unite the Right” protest represents the diversity of views in Virginia and suggests that it is not all doom and gloom. Earlier this year in Virginia, on July 8, 50 members of the KKK Loyal White Knights held a rally in Lee Park and they ended up face to face with roughly 1 000 counter protesters. Even though the event unfortunately deteriorated into violence and the use of tear gas by the police, it remains a poignant example of how there are those unafraid to stand against the proliferation of racism and white nationalism. The same can be said about those who have spread a positive message in other ways, such as Kenneth Frazier, the chief executive of pharmaceutical giant, Merck Pharmaceuticals. He resigned from the President’s Manufacturing Council in protest of Trump’s weak response to the racism. Chief executives from other major companies such as Intel and Under Armour also resigned in protest from the council, issuing impactful statements and taking a stand against Trump’s initial indifference to the blatant and unabashed racism. Webhost service GoDaddy Inc, stopped hosting the website belonging to The Daily Stormer, a neo-Nazi and white supremacist organisation after they allegedly mocked the death of Heyer. Google also distanced itself from 
the neo-Nazi group by cancelling its 
registration. In addition, thousands gathered the day after the Charlottesville event 
in cities across the US protesting 
against fascism and white supremacy, events included candlelight vigils and public rallies. It is the continued resistance to extremism and intolerance that provides hope that open, tolerant societies can exist. Without those who are willing to speak up and oppose extremism, we are lost. As stated by Irish political philosopher, Edmund Burke:  “The only thing necessary for the triumph of evil is for good men to do nothing”. While history is littered with bigots and racists, it thankfully has had many advocates for tolerance and equality. For as long as every generation has a Martin Luther King jr, a Ruby Bridges, a Rosa Parks, or anyone willing to take a stand even in ways that may seem miniscule, racism and intolerance will not triumph. Angela Mudukuti is an international criminal justice lawyer.