Makotanyane is just 28, a journalism graduate, vibrant, and well-spoken. She is passionate about women empowerment, entrepreneurship and community and youth development. She started her current journey three years ago using her Facebook status messages offering advice to women in particular. People responded. “I started getting in-boxed with comments from people asking for relationship, career, spiritual and general advice. “(Through) meeting women in dire situations while working as a journalist and attending women’s events, I developed an interest in hosting women’s empowerment  sessions,” she said. She organises her sessions around a theme, and also offers speakers interested an opportunity to address and motivate women. Makotanyane’s efforts have been recognised with an award from the Department of Social Development for her work. Makotanyane said it was through meeting, sharing and hearing from others that women are reminded that they are definitely not alone. They are able to learn from other women who have faced similar fears and challenges, she said. She has faced her own challenges in life, such as when she was six months’ pregnant  with her daughter Khumo, the baby’s father abandoned her for another woman. “For young people left when they are pregnant, you are not the first person to go through it. Pull your head up high,” is her advice. Today she hopes her child will carry 
on her legacy when she grows up. Makotanyane’s holds a diploma from Boston City Campus, a degree in communications from Unisa and a national certificate in entrepreneurship from the Wits Business School. She is registered for an honours degree in gender studies. She is currently working as a communications manager for a non-profit organisation that prides itself in developing historically disadvantaged communities. She finds it useful to have role models and finds hers among South Africa’s phenomenal women such as Basetsana Kumalo, Dr Judy Dlamini, and Phuthi Mahanyele. She believes their aim has been to encourage and pave the way for other, younger women to follow. In future, this ambitions woman sees herself continuing hosting more sessions and giving back to the community. Also having a “Dr” before her name  and running her own organisation which will give job opportunities to young people.