Seoka is suing five members of the church, including two clergy, for defamation following previous allegations that he had stolen diocese trust funds. The retired bishop said all he actually wanted was an apology. He questioned how one could ever place an amount on a “tarnished” reputation. Judge Dawie Fourie yesterday requested the parties to try to find common ground and to settle their differences. But hours of deliberation between the parties did not lead to any common ground and it was decided that the trial would go ahead. The first witness is due to take the stand today. The parties decided that the trial would kick off by first presenting the case of the defendants, who are expected to explain what led to the document of grievances  titled “Articles of Presentment” in which they had accused Bishop Jo of misappropriating R162 092 of the diocesan trust fund. Their advocate, Sarel Bekker, delivered a lengthy opening address to the court yesterday, in which he had set out the background which led to the document. Bekker said there was a huge rift within the church which could not be healed through mediation or other means. He said his clients were pinning their hopes on the court to come to a conclusion which may heal the broken parish. His clients regretted the discontent within the church, he said. “We hope that we could put a lid on what has happened and go forward. We explored all avenues, but with no joy even judges have spoken to the parties in the past, but it did not help. We are now hoping for a legal solution so that we can go forward,” Bekker said. He assured Judge Fourie that his clients wouldn't waste the court’s time, as they are funding their legal fees from donations. According to a summons issued against the church members, Seoka is claiming R600 000 in damages for alleged defamation. This included R500 000 for the damages to his reputation and R100 000 for the damages suffered to his dignity. He is claiming the money from Clement Sibiya, employed by the National Prosecuting Authority,  counsellor of the Parish of St Albans the Martyr Sibusiso Mnguni, Church warden Randy Phasha, as well as from priests Nkosinami Nkomonde and Dinga Mpunzi.