They were also reminded of their roles and told of ways to work with their teams to reach their goals. The inspiration came during a leadership workshop hosted by Saab Grintek Defence and the Gauteng Department of Education at Leriba Lodge in Centurion and attended by more than 180 principals. “The new generation says ‘fake it until you make it’, but that does not apply to you because it is not what you say, but what you do as a leader that matters,” said Buyani Zwane, motivational speaker and head of Breakthrough Development. He told principals gathered at the event that most of their staff failed because of their failure as leaders. “You ought to be happy at work because if you are not happy, you are toxic to those under you and you are surprised why they do not perform well. “But if you are happy and productive, you produce happy and productive teams,” Zwane said. Motivated to make changes at her school was the principal of Sefako Mapogo Makgatho Primary School in Atteridgeville, Jane Tsharane, who said she would now listen to words unsaid as advised in the workshop. “We are leaders who enjoy being told what we want to hear and somehow it strokes our egos. "But I now realise that we are too quick to jump to conclusion when children are late or not performing well. As from now I will start listening to the unsaid and see what I might have missed in explanations,” she said. Tsharane said she now realised that leaders hardly led by example and were quick to delegate work to others. “When we chose to partner in this workshop it was because we heard there was a great need for leadership development in the school environment, which was the one thing that the energy, time and money was not spent on,” said Adele Hall, Saab vice-president and head of transformation. She said she was humbled and overjoyed to see how principals participated and responded in the workshop. “The participation of the principals showed that the magic was being created and the children are going to be the beneficiaries of that magic,’ she added.