Victims of Hurricane Harvey faced another day waiting on their rooftops in Houston, with large parts of America’s fourth biggest city now under water. Many have tweeted pictures of their plight, along with their addresses in the hope that members of the public will come to their aid. For many, the “social media rescue” has become their only option as they complain of being unable to contact emergency service hotlines as their phone batteries begin to die. In the most pitiful case, the flooded La Vita Bella nursing home in Dickinson, 48km south-east of Houston, was evacuated by helicopter after a photograph of elderly women sitting in a lounge in waist-deep water went viral on social media. At least five lives have been lost to the storm, though it feared the death toll could rise much higher.On Monday night it was reported that six family members drowned when their van was swept away. Police Chief Art Acevedo said he was “really worried about how many bodies we’re going to find”. In scenes that evoked the 2005 Hurricane Katrina tragedy in neighbouring Louisiana, residents resorted to punching a hole in their roofs and waiting for helicopters. Around 30000 are expected to require emergency shelter. Police urged those trapped in their homes to place sheets, towels or flags on their roofs to help rescuers find them. A huge swathe of America’s second biggest state, including Houston with its 6.6 million residents, has been submerged by the worst US storm this decade. An emergency was also declared in Louisiana. Travel around Houston - both the city’s main airports have closed - has become almost impossible other than by boat. Donald Trump plans to visit Texas but officials doubt whether the state’s shattered infrastructure will be able to cope with the president’s arrival. He has promised to see that Texas receives all it needs. He added that recovery in Texas and Louisiana would be “a long and difficult road”. Local police and emergency rescue services have appealed for anyone with a boat to join rescue efforts. Hundreds responded, including members of the Cajun Navy, a group of boat owners who have responded to disasters in Louisiana. The hashtag #HoustonStrong began trending on Twitter as people shared pictures of the diverse community coming together to help each other. One wrote: “Ppl helping people. Not asking who the other voted for or what God they worship. No agenda, just humanity. That’s America! A Houston woman was among those who went on Facebook to appeal for someone to rescue a friend and her five children. “Anybody please my friend is losing faith, she feels like they running out of time,”she wrote. A man with a relative sheltering with nine other people “that need to be rescued” posted a message giving their Houston address and added: “Water is in house and getting higher”. However, the US Coast Guard tweeted that people should not seek help via social media and keep trying emergency numbers. Social media posts are hard to verify. Some residents have criticised officials, saying they were told to stay put. Mayor Sylvester Turner opposed evacuating the city over fears of a repetition of the response to Hurricane Rita, when 100 died fleeing Houston in 2005. More than 76cm of rain have hit some areas since Thursday. Another 120cm are expected in the next week. - Daily Mail