Even though he passed away when I was only 11, there were things he always emphasised that are only making sense to me now. He always spoke about the appreciation of the freedom we attained. He would say “Fanie”, as he affectionately called me, “life was very hard under the apartheid regime”. “You are more blessed to be young and free and live under this democracy that people fought and died for.” I agree with him. This got the 26-year-old me thinking. Do we ever pause for a moment and realise the beauty of living in our country? If we have not let us do so now. We have come far as a country. Very far, and for a relatively young democracy as ours, we have done so many great things. Growing up in a village is a curse and a blessing. It is a beautiful-ugly space to live in. The levels of going without and poverty scream at you. However, so many things have changed after 1994. Sometimes I used to go to school not even knowing what I would have for lunch. But they introduced the Schools Feeding Scheme that ensured every child at least enjoyed a meal at lunch. Since then, to date, kids in the rural areas from the poorest of the poor families have one decent meal at school. This government initiative made schooling more bearable. It eliminated all the stress about food. An empty stomach makes a lot of noise, and takes one’s concentration away. That was just the beginning. Housing has always been a huge issue in our country, specifically to the poorest of the poor. When rainy seasons knocked in, many people’s hearts would sink. The many shacks and dilapidated houses in our village would be soaked. Winter was no different it made many feel as though they had no shelter. But through the Reconstruction and Development Programme (RDP) in our country, this brilliant socio-economic policy framework got thousands of South Africans homes. It is a big deal. Our village had a communal water pump, not a tap. In the late 90s and early 2000s people used to queue to get water. It was an exercise and a half. Today, the whole village has running water. We have taps in the streets. Fifteen years ago having running water in our village was a far-fetched dream. I want to complain we have to complain about the disservices from our government. Nevertheless, to go on about every day and not recognise the betterments or improvements in many of the lives of impoverished South Africans since the dawn of democracy and the taking over of a black government would be unfair. Our country is far better than it was pre-1994. Personally, I look at how vocal and opinionated I am. I wasn’t going to see the light of a new day under the old government for speaking or for expressing myself. But today, as a young black man, I can speak freely. Whether people like or dislike, agree or disagree with what I say, it is besides the point. I have the freedom of expression and the responsibility also to not infringe on other people’s lives. Without this constitutional guarantee and many other rights I enjoy, I would have been a jailbird a long time ago under the apartheid regime. Fact is, I have rights my parents and grandparents never enjoyed. For that, I need to be grateful. Things are not as bad as they used to be. We have a lot to celebrate as a country. However, we still have a long way to go. Look at our country now it is in this country where sons and daughters of parents who were domestic workers are world champions, CEOs, CFOs, COOs, chief directors, doctors, engineers, social activists, globally recognised musicians, chattered accountants, managers, board members and many other great things in our country and the world. All the above-mentioned show the progress of black lives in our country. Our excellence, which was suppressed and not recognised for hundreds of years is manifesting. We are in a war-zone free area. Even nature itself is too kind to us. As people die from earthquakes, the feeling of an earth quiver get us all excited. Because that is all we know, a slight rapid motion of tectonic plates. We live in a beautiful country with multi-faceted complexities. But none of that should take away the beauty of being a South African. As my grandfather also emphasised; those in the Struggle fought a good fight, and to us born-frees their efforts may seem teeny-weeny or less significant. If that is the case that means as a generation we have our work cut out us. We have the responsibility to make things better than they have. However, we should never undermine or underestimate the progress made by 23 years of democracy. We can do better but we should not forget we are not where we used to be. We are way better than we’ve been before 1994 as a country. That is a FACT!  Kabelo Chabalala is the founder of the Young Men Movement. E-mail kabelo03chabalala@gmail.com; Twitter @KabeloJay; Facebook Kabelo 
Chabalala.