JOHANNESBURG – Telkom has launched its ground breaking new
entertainment offering. LIT is a first-of-its-kind streaming service giving its
customers access to on-demand movies, series, online video and music through
some of the world’s most popular online content providers. Telkom on Thursday announced
the imminent launch LIT TV, offering Unlimited ADSL, Fibre and LTE
SmartBroadband customers the Telkom LIT TVC 100 media box which allows
customers to transform their TV into a smart TV, with pre-loaded content
channels from their content providers. Telkom Consumer CEO Attila
Vitai said the company’s strategy is to take the lead in the data market with the
goal of offering customers a compelling entertainment proposition. He said LIT
Video and LIT Music was offering zero rated video and music streaming to select
content partners for its FreeMe 2GB and up customers. “Last year, we
revolutionised the mobile industry by launching FreeMe, giving South Africans
access to data at a cost that was previously unimaginable. This year, we
launched Unlimited Home, giving fixed-line consumers unlimited data and higher
speeds”. “We have already focused on
disrupting the data market. Now, we are upping our game to provide our
customers with a compelling proposition for all the data we’ve given them. Our
LIT offer enables South Africans to access world-class, on demand, streaming
content, without incurring additional data costs. We believe this is a game changer,”
said Vitai. Vitai said this innovation aimed
at really transforming the way South Africans consume digital entertainment. By
removing the worry of additional data costs they are putting unlimited
entertainment in the hands of our consumers. Although subscription costs
for content providers were not included, they could be deducted directly from
the customers’ Telkom account through their reverse carrier billing option with
certain of our content providers. Read also: Subscription TV choices growing “We are excited to be
offering free YouTube streaming particularly as this is a free content
platform. The popularity of YouTube is unparalleled – we believe that this
offer as well as our zero rated music streaming offers will be a huge drawcard
for new customers". “Today marks the first step
in Telkom’s content offering. We already have more content partners in the
pipeline and our ambitions in this space extend beyond today’s significant
announcement,” said Vitai. LIT Video and LIT Music will
be available from 1 September 2017. - BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE