Men are monsters. Men are killers. Men are abusers. Men have found their manliness wanting. No matter how learned, intellectual, civilised or educated we are, we are still monsters. Let us also get something clear, it is not the number of monsters that is increasing, it is the level of awareness that is increasing. I am not convinced that it is a reflection of what is happening in the socially unhealthy society we live in today. We have dedicated a lot of resources to not dealing with the root cause of the challenges we face. Let’s take the government for example, it has an entire department that, among many other issues that women deal with, aims to address the issues of gender-based violence. But, it focuses mainly on women. When are we going to deal with the perpetrators directly? To me it is nonsensical and very much ineffective to create platforms that are essentially equipping women, girls and children with skills and ways to deal with an abusive man and how to deal with the aftermath of the violence ushered by the monsters called “men”. It is illogical that for so long, we have been focusing on the fruits borne by the tree, its leaves and branches, but nothing is done about the roots. Men are the problem. Let us deal with them. Let us create a portfolio that deals with men and all their issues. Let us drive more resources toward this plague of violent and abusive men. Women’s issues are: The issue of skin colour change and bleaching. Black women hate on each other. When patriarchy doesn’t know it’s borders and affects a woman’s progress. The political sphere that still doesn’t regard women in high esteem. The business environment that undermines a woman before she can even prove that she is qualified and capable. Those issues of inequality and equality are women’s issues. However, the misdirected masculinity, the short tempers that lead to raising hands to women and children, that is a man’s issue. When a man feels emasculated, that is a man’s issue, the inferior feeling, that’s a man’s issue. When the lack of emotional intelligence leads to irrational and unspeakable actions like burning your partner to death, shooting them to death and beating them up to a pulp, those are men issues. Women are only victims of these sad realities. We need to change the approach. We need to start dealing with the root problem. For instance, I grow up in a community that believes in these words, “letsogo le tiisa lerato”, which means, “if he beats you, he loves you”. On a rare occasion where a young lady who was assaulted by her boyfriend goes to the police station to report the crime, she is questioned to a point where she doesn’t even get to lay charges. We have normalised abuse. It happens, it does not get reported. It becomes gossip around the neighbourhood. It will happen again, and the victim will just bear and grin. She will get told: “Are you sure you want to go through the exhausting processes of the courts?” Or, “surely you and your man can sort this thing out?” Ironically, she’s ill-advised by a male police officer. Eventually, she does not go ahead with pressing charges. Again, these are actions of the monsters called men in our communities. The notion of gathering women and girls into big halls and tents to tell them about how they should be protecting themselves against men isn’t good enough. We prioritise the results of the violence over the sickness - inhuman behaviour and superiority - of men. It is as if the bad way men carry themselves is a secondary issue. It isn’t the aim, but it sounds like this: “Men, do your best in abusing them, we will create platforms to help them know how to handle the abuse and violence.” We should be saying: “We are sick of violent men who rape, beat and kill women. We are going to get them jailed, create more platforms aimed at rehabilitating and institutionalising good behaviour among men and even create a new ministerial department of men, with the aim of helping the men in our society.” We do such a great disservice to girls and women in our country. Dealing with the results of the actions of men in this manner will only make their uncalled-for ways perpetual. I looked at the social ills that women face on a day-to-day basis a few years ago, and I realised that most rapists were men, the gender-based violence was ushered by men. Most drug abusers are men. Women get killed by men, they get assaulted daily by men. That is when I realised that starting my movement, the Young Men Movement (YMM) couldn’t be more urgent than now. We need to breed a new generation of men. We have to raise the boy child differently. The figures are staggering. One in every four women is physically abused by her intimate partner. Every six hours, a woman is killed by her current or former intimate partner. These numbers have to change, but I strongly believe that they will change if we start dealing with the root problem. The men in our society are the problem. Let’s focus on them. We do not need organisations such as People Opposing Women Abuse, we need People Opposing Abusive Men. It is the men who who need fixing, not women. We can create a new generation of men. We can achieve that if the monsters and sick men in our country are our focus to eradicate gender-based violence. Let’s focus on building a new society of boys to men. Chabalala is the founder of the Young Men Movement. E-mail kabelo03chabalala@gmail.com, Twitter @KabeloJay, Facebook Kabelo Chabalala