Yesterday, the family asked for space to mourn peacefully. Speaking outside the Pretoria Magistrate's Court, where Malesela James Ngoasheng, 30, appeared in connection with the death, a family representative said they buried her at the weekend. They were still in disbelief. Ngoasheng was appearing for a bail application. Prosecutor Lufuno Manena requested the matter be postponed for verification of address. Manena said the Sunnyside address provided by the accused, where he said he was living at  the time of his arrest, could not be used as he had been given notice to move out at the end of this month by the landlord. The prosecutor said he spoke to the investigating officer before the court started and had confirmed that the defence was waiting for an alternative address. It was alleged Ngoasheng shot Ledwaba because she refused to leave with him after he bought her food and alcohol during an evening at the popular club in the city. Witnesses gave conflicting statements on the actual killing, with some saying she had forced her way into Ngoasheng’s Mercedes Viano. In terms of this version, other passengers did not want her in the car. The second version indicated he tried to force her into the vehicle, ans she was shot when she refused. The police, however, said a group of women in the spacious sport utility vehicle had rejected the woman’s attempts to get into the car. This was followed by the shooting. The man allegedly fled and was found and arrested in a nearby flat, a police spokesperson has said. Others weighed in on the matter and said Ngoasheng had played “blesser”, spending money on her during the night, with the expectation that she would leave with him later. She had refused and died for that, they claimed, inviting a flurry of comments across society on the blesser phenomenon. Women were called on to spend their own money to avoid being “owned” by sugar daddies, while others said men were known to spend money on women but that, they said, gave them no right to make demands of them. The matter was postponed September 5, and the accused will remain in custody.