In the 1960s, hundreds of thousands of Turkish men were invited in to fill labour shortages. But Germany made no attempt to help them learn the language or upgrade their skills. The result is that 3million Turks in Germany are still struggling today. They are the least integrated minority, with an unemployment rate of about 16%, almost three times the national average. Now, two years after it threw open its doors to the latest refugees, Germany has devised an integration strategy based on language and job training intended to get the newcomers into work and off welfare. Among the changes are 600 hours of mandatory language lessons and fast-tracked work permits. These measures are starting to show signs of success: a growing number of refugees are joining a labour market where a record 1.1million jobs are unfilled. “Things are very different here,” said Merhawi Tesfay, a 32-year-old Eritrean who was hired by Kremer Machine Systems, an engineering company in the town of Gescher in western Germany. “In Eritrea you find work through word of mouth. Here you have the Job Centre and online job sites. Everything comes with too much bureaucracy and my German wasn’t good enough.” Tesfay was hired initially as a trainee and then full-time, through ELNet, a government-funded project run by charities that assign mentors to refugees. He had been looking for work for almost three years. Waves of refugees, many forced 
to flee Syria’s civil war, began arriving in large numbers two years ago, one of the biggest migration movements Europe had seen since World War II. The challenge now for Germany, which took in the largest number of the incomers in western Europe, is to integrate them into society over the long term. With its strong economy, Germany is better placed than many European countries to accept refugees. German unemployment is at its lowest since 1990 and seven years of growth mean the government can afford to put aside more than e10billion a year for refugees. “Germany learnt that integration is something you work on,” said Herbert Bruecker of Humboldt University of Berlin. “It doesn’t happen on its own”. - Reuters