The awards recognised art under the Street Art Meets Climate Change theme. It came about from a decision that a new, vibrant way to address climate change issues in the country was required. And street art was it. The competition was launched at the end of May and ran until the end of July, for young artists from all over the country. The aim was for them to use their youthful creativity and style to bring across the message of climate change. “Pop culture is the ideal medium for engaging young people. We thought we should give them an opportunity to showcase their youthful talent to raise awareness on this urgent issue,” founder of WTP Media and event organiser, Weza Matomane, said. Climate change did not only affect the current generation but also future generations, hence they wanted young people to be involved in the initiative, he said. Putting the capital on the map was 22-year-old Lebogang Mabone from Orchards, who finished in third position for a painting, from his childhood memories of living in Mabopane where he used to play with tyres instead of toys. “It has been a while since I've left the township but when I visited the place earlier, I found a similar scenario, children playing with tyres as I had done back in those years. Though I never thought about it before, I realised that this was recycling and reusing old tyres for the entertainment of children in the township. And this is exactly what the competition was about - recycle, reuse and reduce,” he said. The Tshwane University of Technology student was overwhelmed as it was the first time he had won anything in all the competitions he had entered. Mabone won a cash prize of R5000. Other winners included Nombuso Bhogolo from Joburg who won R7500 for her second position and another R7 500 for the public choice award. Lene van Heerden from the Western Cape came first and received R10000. “South Africa is one of the leading contributors of greenhouses gases in the world. We hoped that launching the competition here would make a difference,” said Flemish Minister President Geert Bourgeois.