The rise of middle-aged brides adds to evidence that marriage is developing into an institution for older and wealthier couples. Men and women over the age of 35 are increasingly likely to get married, according to the British Office for National Statistics (ONS). But weddings are becoming less common among younger people. There was a boom in marriage among over-65s, matching the “silver divorce” trend that has seen growing numbers of older couples break up. But only a tiny number now wed in their teens. The report pointed to a continuing overall decline in marriages and rise in cohabitation. Opposite-sex marriages rose by 2.7% on 2013 to 247372. However they were down 6.2% on 2012, possibly indicating some couples regarded 2013 as an unlucky year. The ONS report said marriage rates increased for men and women aged 35 and over. “At ages under 35, marriage rates for men and women decreased, with the exception of those aged 25 to 29, where marriage rates increased by less than 1%.” It said marriage rates among the over-65s have risen by 56% for women and 41% for men since 2009. The redefinition of marriage 
as an institution for the middle-aged follows the increasing trend for wealthier people to be married, 
while those with less money stay single or cohabit. Official surveys suggest the better-off are now twice as likely to be married as the low-paid. The ONS has said that “the long-term decline in marriages and marriage rates between 1972 and 2009 is a likely consequence of increasing numbers of men and women delaying marriage, or couples choosing to cohabit rather than marry, either as a precursor to marriage or as an alternative”. Decline has gone alongside the move of millions of young women into education and careers rather than marriage and family. The Relate charity said that the decline of marriage does not matter. Chief executive Chris Sherwood said: “More people are choosing to cohabit and this will, in part, be contributing to the rising average age of marriage. “The quality of a relationship is the most important thing, rather than relationship status.” - Daily Mail