Pretoria – The railway police officer found guilty of culpable homicide following the death of DJ and sound engineer Nkosinathi Ntuli shortly after the 2010 Fifa World Cup closing ceremony has become a broken man fraught with guilt, depression and alcoholism. Warrant Officer Enoch Makgamatha’s life and that of his family had been severely altered by the events that led to the death of the 23-year-old Ntuli, clinical psychologist Jonathan Scholtz said in delivering a pre-sentence report in the Pretoria Magistrate’s Court. Scholtz said the 47-year-old Makgamatha had been so affected by the death of the DJ that he had been admitted to hospital for 10 days for post-traumatic stress disorder and had developed diabetes. “He broke down crying twice during our consultations, saying culturally he knew how difficult it must be to lose a last-born child." “He has become a vulnerable man who has been broken down psychologically, emotionally, spiritually and has become socially cut off,” Scholtz said. “During our first interactions he indicated that the deceased was the same age as his daughter and he understood the anger and loss of the parents." “He identified with the sentiment that no parent should lose a child and, worst of all, at his own hands.” Scholtz said that despite Makgamatha working in the police force for 18 years, things took a turn for the worse with colleagues after the shooting, to the point that he ended up resigning in 2016. The police officer’s daughter had also struggled with her father’s incarceration and failed Grade 11 three times. Scholtz said Makgamatha needed help with his condition. State prosecutor Francois van Zylm, however, said that Makgamatha’s non-compliance with treatment given to him to deal with his depression was of concern. Van Zyl also noted that there were professionals that could be made available to assist with his treatment during his incarceration. Advocate Piet Pistorius requested a three-week postponement for the Correctional Services report to be furnished to the court. The dead man’s father, Thomas Ntuli, spoke to the Pretoria News outside court, saying he was disappointed that Correctional Services did not have its final report. “Our family just wants to put this matter behind us and move on with our lives now,” he said. Ntuli was shot dead by police in an unmarked state vehicle while returning from the World Cup closing ceremony. He was allegedly driving against the flow of traffic on Boom Street. He had allegedly been cheeky to police officers and had “dared” them to shoot him. Makgamatha claimed he fired shots at the DJ after he refused to co-operate with the officers. He was initially arrested, along with Sergeant Jacobeth Ngobeni, 47, Captain Lilian Tlhapi, 58, and Captain Moetsi Mabena, 46. Charges against Ngobeni, Mabena and Tlhapi were withdrawn after the State failed to link them to the shooting. Makgamatha was acquitted of murder, but was found guilty in 2016 of culpable homicide. The court found he had not acted within the law when he fired several shots into Ntuli’s car, as Ntuli had not posed a danger to the four police officers. The matter is set to continue on April 26. Pretoria News