If confirmed, the March 17 incident would mark the greatest single loss of civilian life since the US began strikes on IS targets in Iraq and Syria in 2014. An “initial review” showed that the coalition struck IS fighters and equipment in west Mosul at the request of Iraq forces and “at the location corresponding to allegations of civilian casualties,” the task force leading the coalition said. Previously, the US-led coalition had said officials were unsure whether there were any air attacks targeting the specific area of the neighbourhood Mosul al-Jadida at the time when residents claim a strike killed 137 civilians. Iraqi officials working on the rescue said they had pulled 83 bodies - including many women and children - from a destroyed building by sundown on Saturday.  They had yet to complete excavations at the site. The US military is conducting an investigation into the incident. Allegations of large-scale civilian carnage deepen questions about the conduct of counter-terrorism operations under US President Donald Trump, who promised to act more aggressively to stamp out militant groups but whose short presidency has been marked by a spate of high-profile incidents in which civilians may have died. In addition to the March 17 strike in Mosul, the US military is now investigating a separate attack this month alleged to have killed scores of civilians at a mosque in Syria. Military leaders have also acknowledged the death of at least some civilians in a Navy SEAL raid in Yemen in January. Activists including Airwars, a British-based monitoring group, have raised the alarm at what they say is a surge in US-linked deaths in Iraq and Syria, asserting that 1000 civilians have died this month alone in strikes by the US-led coalition in Iraq and Syria. While the administration of former US president Barack Obama acknowledged that its military operations resulted in a number of civilian casualty incidents in Iraq and Syria and elsewhere, the tightly spaced series of recent allegations is striking. It remains unclear what, if any, common factors may be behind the reported increase in civilian bloodshed. Operations against IS strongholds have reached a new, more intense phase in Mosul, where local forces are battling militants in heavily populated neighbourhoods, and in Syria, where the US is seeking to deal a decisive blow to several militant groups. In his first days in office, Trump, who criticised his predecessor as weak against militant groups, asked the Pentagon to consider whether restrictions on US military operations against the group, designed in part to protect civilian life, should be loosened. Officials maintain that, so far at least, no changes to existing rules for military operations have taken place. Military commanders also say they take extensive measures to protect civilian life. The US-led coalition said its goal was “zero civilian casualties.” “But the coalition will not abandon our commitment to our Iraqi partners because of IS’s inhuman tactics terrorising civilians, using human shields, and fighting from protected sites such as schools, hospitals, religious sites and civilian neighbourhoods,” the coalition said. Like other strikes conducted in support of Iraqi ground operations, the March 17 attack was approved at a US command center either in Iraq or elsewhere in the Middle East, defence officials said. Typically, a one-star general or a team working under him or her reviews and approves such strikes. The increase in civilian casualty claims threatens to tarnish the gains of Iraqi forces and the US-led coalition. Analysts have said that with residents fed up after nearly three years of brutal Islamic State rule, the operation to retake the city presents a chance to reset relations between the majority Sunni city and the government in Baghdad - essential for preventing extremism. But the extended operation to retake IS’s last remaining stronghold in Iraq has caught many civilians in the crossfire. Leaving the bombed-out street with tears in his eyes on Friday, Saban Ahmed Ibrahim was among those who claimed to have lost relatives in the strike. He said he moved his wife and two children - a 2-year-old boy and a 1-year-old girl - out of his neighbourhood to shelter in Mosul al-Jadida because of the heavy fighting around his home. He was still waiting for the bodies of his loved ones to be recovered from the building. Iraqi commanders have attempted to play down the incident and have restricted media access to the area.