Russia and China also sat out the opening General Assembly session. Russia had voted against launching the effort last year. China abstained. The proposed ban, backed by Pope Francis, UN Secretary-General António Guterres and dozens of humanitarian and non-proliferation groups, sets most of the major nuclear powers against more than 100 smaller non-nuclear states that seek a treaty this year. “As a mom, as a daughter, there is nothing I want more for my family than a world that has no nuclear weapons,” said Nikki Haley, the US ambassador to the UN. “But we have to be realistic. Is there anyone who believes that North Korea would agree to give up its nuclear weapons on the UN’s orders?” She and representatives from Britain and France spoke to reporters as the UN General Assembly began debate on the issue. More than 30 nations sat out the session, many at the urging of the US, in support of the argument that a blanket ban now is impractical or dangerous. “Is it any surprise that Iran is supportive of this?” Haley asked. “It is not.” North Korea developed nuclear weapons through a rogue programme  and is attempting to field a long-range missile that could deliver a weapon to US shores, according to officials. It can already target US forces and allies in Asia, they say. Iran denies it sought a nuclear weapon, but agreed to curtail its nuclear programme in an international deal led by former US president Barack Obama and heavily criticised by President Donald Trump. Although Obama had set the eventual eradication of nuclear weapons as a goal, his administration also opposed a UN ban. The Trump administration has not yet said whether it will affirm the long-range goal of eliminating nuclear weapons or pledge to further shrink the US arsenal. The White House is conducting a nuclear posture review. Haley said the US and other major powers boycotting the UN discussion “believe in” the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. The landmark treaty that took effect in 1970 commits nations with nuclear weapons to move toward disarmament while prohibiting non-nuclear states from obtaining the weapons. Signers of the treaty also agree all nations may have access to nuclear power and other peaceful uses of nuclear technology. As a presidential candidate, Trump suggested that US allies Japan and South Korea could develop nuclear weapons and defend themselves, instead of relying on the US nuclear umbrella, and suggested that nuclear weapons could be effective against Islamic State militants. He said he wanted the US to have an up-to-date and perhaps expanded nuclear arsenal, but that he would like to see a nuclear-free world. At the General Assembly session on Monday, diplomats said they would pursue a draft document this spring. A model is the two-decade-old UN-backed ban on landmines, which is credited with reducing use of those weapons even though major nations including the US, Russia and China have declined to sign it. Toshiki Fujimori , a baby when he survived the 1945 US nuclear bomb attack on Hiroshima, Japan, addressed the opening session. “Everybody thought I would die, yet I survived. It’s a miracle,” Fujimori said. “I am here at the UN asking for the abolition of nuclear weapons this is the mission I am given as a survivor.” “The UK is not attending the negotiations on a treaty to prohibit nuclear weapons because we do not believe they will lead to effective progress on global nuclear disarmament,” British UN Ambassador Matthew Rycroft said.