“Time is running out,” Unicef said on Tuesday, noting the threat from famine,drought and war. Some 22million children are hungry, sick, displaced and out of school in the four countries, according to the UN agency. Nearly 1.4 million are at imminent risk of death this year from severe malnutrition. “We learned from Somalia in 2011 that by the time famine was announced, untold numbers of children had already died. That can’t happen again,” said Manuel Fontaine, Unicef's director of Emergency Programmes. A global charity said yesterday that more than 3000 Somalis were fleeing daily due to severe drought. The Norwegian Refugee Council (NRC) said 438000 people in Somalia had been displaced since
November last year, by the worst drought the country had experienced in 20 years. “Over 3000 people a day are being forced to abandon their homes in search of water and food. This is the highest displacement we have witnessed since the 2011 famine, and it’s spiralling higher each day,” said NRC’s country director in Somalia, Victor Moses. NRC’s Protection and Return Monitoring Network found that two-thirds of all those displaced have fled from the Mudug, Bay, Shabelle and Sool regions. More than half were fleeing to three regions - Banadir, Mudug and Bay. Almost 85000 people have arrived in the capital Mogadishu since November. "Families have told us harrowing stories of abandoning their weak cattle, of being forced to leave their homes to search for food and water,” NRC said. Forecasts indicate that below to near average rainfall is expected across most parts of Somalia between April and June. The charity said the drought was forcing people to drink unsafe water, with some 11000 cases of cholera having been confirmed so far, while 268 people had been confirmed dead this year in areas where aid agencies have access. Famine was declared a month ago in South Sudan, and will probably be declared soon in Nigeria, Somalia and Yemen where fighting has pushed people off their farmland and droughts have destroyed their animals and what is left of crops. “Children can’t wait for yet another famine declaration before we take action,” Unicef director Fontaine said. The UN agency is calling for close to $255million (R3.3billion) to provide 22million children with food, water, health, education and protection services for the next few months. Most of that funding will go towards nutrition programmes to screen children and provide them with therapeutic food, as well as health services, water and
sanitation.