In the final period of a third 30-minute session, the Mamelodi Sundowns midfielder cracked in one of his trademark long range specialties to win the clash 1-0 at the King Zwelithini Stadium in Umlazi in front of a small crowd. Day three of the national squad’s Durban training camp was the first time the 25-man squad worked out together after midfielder Keagan Dolly joined the team following his arrival late on Tuesday from France. Being just over five months since the last outing, a 1-1 draw in Mozambique, this is almost a fresh start for Bafana. It’s a side in a state of flux. When they step onto the Moses Mabhida Stadium pitch on Saturday at 3pm against the Wild Dogs, it will mark the second game at the helm for caretaker coach Owen da Gama following the dismissal of former coach Ephraim Mashaba for insubordination earlier this year. A new coach is expected to be announced shortly, and for players - such as striker Kermit Erasmus and midfielder Kamohelo Mokotjo - this is a new chapter after they returned to the fold following fallouts with Mashaba. Erasmus showed his appetite for national honours with a lively run out against Arrows, while midfielder Thulani Serero - out in the cold at Ajax Amsterdam, where he doesn’t feature in the club’s plans - also made the most of the call-up during the warm-up match. Come Saturday afternoon, the team should enjoy better interplay. Defensively the structure is more settled. Regular first choice goalkeeper Itumeleng Khune was announced as captain this week. In front of him the options are familiar names, Rivaldo Coetzee, Thulani Hlatshwayo and Erick Mathoho. Da Gama is looking to blood Lorenzo Gordinho, the Kaizer Chiefs central defender, who is one of three uncapped players in the squad. The others are attackers Phakamani Mahlambi and Luther Singh, who recently helped Amajita qualify for the Fifa Under-20 World Cup that will be played in South Korea in May. Another player looking to make an impact is Thabo Mnyamane. He made his debut under Mashaba in 2015 when he played for AmaTuks and has since then been enjoying continental club football in the Caf Confederation Cup with SuperSport United. A return to the Bafana set-up comes at the right time for the 24-year-old. “I was honoured to get the call-up ... African sides are very physical, and they play with their hearts whether it’s a friendly or not, so we have to showcase our talents on the day,” said Mnyamane.