The month of April then continues in gruelling fashion for the Bianconeri with usual domestic duty plus two Champions League quarter-finals against Barcelona April 11 and 19. For Juve’s evergreen captain Gianluigi Buffon, who at 39 celebrated his 1 000th professional game last week, this schedule is nothing to fear but rather something to look forward to. “The fixtures are coming thick and fast but these are the moments that we prepare for,” the star goalkeeper said. “It has taken nine months of hard work to get to this point in the season in this condition and in this position in the league. “Players live for periods like this and we want to put on a show until the end of the campaign. Now we have the chance to reap what we have sown in the past few months. If we were offered this situation - going strongly in the Champions League, Serie A and Coppa Italia - in July I think we would have all taken it.” First up late Sunday is league action, which sees the Old Lady in command eight points clear of Roma with nine games remaining. Napoli sit third two points behind the Romans and aim to leapfrog the Giallorossi in order to avoid a play-off round to access the next Champions League. The two sides meet again Wednesday for an Italian Cup second leg semi-final, after the holders won the first game 3-1 in Turin. Napoli found a morale booster Monday as their coach Maurizio Sarri won the Golden Bench award, prevailing over Juve’s Massimiliano Allegri, who last year received the prize for the second time. But Sarri insisted: “It is not like Napoli-Juve 1-0. Points and results matter more than prizes, but it is nice to beat Massimiliano for once.” At Naples’ San Paolo, Sarri will count on the good form of Belgian Dries Mertens, who with 20 league goals has one more than Juve’s Gonzalo Higuain. The Argentinian played three years at Napoli and set an all-time Serie A record of 36 goals last season, but became a public enemy when he moved to Turin in July. Also battling on two fronts are Roma and Lazio, who open the league weekend tomorrow and clash Tuesday in the other cup semi. Lazio, who won the first leg 2-0, visit Sassuolo before Roma’s late home game to Empoli. The other Sunday games are Torino v Udinese, Genoa v Atalanta, Pescara v AC Milan, Fiorentina v Bologna, Chievo v Crotone and Palermo v Cagliari. Inter Milan v Sampdoria completes matchday 30 on Monday. - dpa