In court papers, the parents said Johannes Jonker suffered such severe brain damage owing to oxygen deprivation that he could not even feed by mouth. After hearing the evidence of doctors and nurses, and that of medical experts, Judge Wendy Hughes ruled the staff at the hospital, involved in Johannes’ delivery seven years ago, were indeed negligent. The Health MEC was 100% liable for the damages Johannes’ parents, Liz-Marie Booyse and Jacob Jonker, a bus driver, could prove they had suffered, she ruled. Their claim include R7.5m for three around-the-clock caregivers to take care of Johannes for the next 40 years. The court found had the nurses acted when they detected the foetus was in distress, and if the newborn was correctly resuscitated shortly after birth, this tragedy could have been avoided. When the mother was admitted to the hospital on the evening of February 8, 2010, the foetus was perfectly healthy. That the nurses who assisted in the delivery dragged their heels, and the fact that they did not call a doctor when things went wrong, will now cost the taxpayer dearly. Johannes’s grandmother, who was present at the delivery, recounted to the court how the baby was born face down, showing no signs of life. She said one of the nurses even lifted the leg of the baby and dropped it, saying “ this is a lifeless baby”. She said even after birth, no attempts were made to assist the baby. This caused an argument between her and the nurses. A doctor heard the argument and rushed into the room, taking the baby and trying to resuscitate him, before Johannes was rushed to the Steve Biko Hospital’s ICU Unit. By then the damage was done. The main midwife on duty, only identified as Sister Mafolo, admitted that the management of the mother and child was of substandard quality and unacceptable. She also admitted that she failed to call a doctor that night when things went wrong. Mafolo told the court that she did indeed fail to monitor the mother and foetus before and during the birth, and admitted that she “messed up” the resuscitation of the baby after he was born. Counsel for the MEC argued that even though it could be accepted that the conduct of Mafolo was wrong, and that the baby had suffered as a result, it couldn’t be said that the care was negligent and the cause of the baby’s brain damage. Judge Hughes frowned upon this, she found that the nurses, especially the midwife in charge, should have realised that the foetus was in distress and what the results could be. The worst blunder, she said, was the lack of resuscitation of the baby shortly after birth. “The only conclusion is that, if the proper procedures had been followed, the result could have been avoided,” the judge said. Pretoria News