Pretoria Various stakeholders have joined forces and resources to provide additional safety, security and cleaning services for the benefit of students and others who live and work in the Hatfield Campus Village.The village was launched by the board of directors of the Hatfield City Improvement District (CID) on Tuesday night. It gives an identity to the area of jurisdiction of the Hatfield CID, bounded by Lynnwood Road in the south, Frances Baard/Burnett Street in the north, Grosvenor Street in the east and Festival Street and University Road in the west.The focus is on tackling crime and grime, for which the SAPS and the Tshwane Metro Police, along with the cleaning services of the municipality are responsible, respectively.These services are to be supplemented by the CID s own safety and security ambassadors and cleaning teams. The goal is a safer and cleaner Hatfield. The launch of the Hatfield Campus Village is, however, much more than just giving the area a name, said the chairperson of the Hatfield CID, Professor Niek Grov&eacute;. The purpose was to mark the beginning of a concerted campaign to transform the village into a vibrant, inclusive, mixed-use area that, apart from being safe and clean, also provided an environment in which all stakeholders could thrive, he said. &quot;Students, residents and visitors must feel welcome, while businesses must flourish as a result of large numbers of people being attracted to a variety of events, entertainment, dining and other family-friendly opportunities in the area.&quot; The large student population in the area and the preponderance of dedicated accommodation will be transformed into a mixed community that also comprises families, university staff members and young professionals, he said.Mixed residential occupation will also provide for more sustainable businesses in the area, with a year-round clientele even during university recess periods when students are not around. The Hatfield CID is a legal entity established in terms of the Gauteng City Improvement Districts Act that is intended to support the City of Tshwane by topping up the services provided by the municipality. The University of Pretoria is a major stakeholder in the area. Unlike a regular business, it couldn t simply uproot and move elsewhere, said UP vice-chancellor and principal, Professor Cheryl de la Rey at the launch. It is, therefore, in its interest to contribute to the economic stability and growth of the local economy to ensure its own long-term sustainability, she added. It is for this reason that we intend to increase our investment in the area by, among other interventions, procuring goods and services and hiring staff locally, helping to incubate new businesses, support job creation projects, and train local people to make them more marketable in a competitive job market, all with a view to growing community wealth.&quot; We are already involved in a number of social upliftment projects through our community engagement initiatives, all aimed at promoting an inclusive village community. We must also cater for the needs of the large student community. She emphasised, however, that to make everything work, we must have concurrence among all stakeholders in the area .Lucas Luckhoff, chief executive of the Hatfield CID, reiterated the need for co-operation and referred to two studies undertaken in the past 15 months. One was by a team of consultants from the US who have wide-ranging experience with similar projects across the world.&quot;They indicated that most of the success drivers were already in place in Hatfield for achieving the indented objectives, Luckhoff said. The other study made recommendations on spatial and institutional development and a management framework for the village.&quot;The appointment of the new CID board and a full-time chief executive are the first of the recommendations to be implemented. The report indicated very clearly that the project would be resource intensive. Initiatives are under way to raise funds locally and abroad, with the US State department and the Kresge Foundation having already contributed to kick-starting the project. Our research shows that an expansion of the boundaries will make the village more economically viable. He emphasised, however, that due process would have to be followed to expand the village boundaries of which public consultation was a critical component. Such negotiations have commenced and we have already had an indication from one community that they prefer not to become part of the village, a decision we respect, he said. Other communities and many other stakeholders have, however, already bought into the concept with much enthusiasm. MMC for roads and transport, Sheila Senkubuge, speaking on behalf of the city, indicated the council s strong support for the CID concept.Hatfield CID is a geographic area within which property owners agreed to pay for certain services supplementary to those supplied by the local authority and which enhance the physical and social environment of the area. The property owners determine the type and scope of services that are required based on the needs of the area.Services offered by the Hatfield City Improvement District mainly focus on the following safety and security, cleaning, maintenance and upliftment as well as marketing and public relations.The existing security team outsourced has proven successful resulting in a reduction in criminal activities within the CID boundaries.Pretoria News