Pretoria – The Danville woman who was physically and mentally abused by her husband for more than 30 years has developed dementia and was unable to care for herself. Details of her ordeal emerged in the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, last week. The court heard that the husband did not bother looking after her and beat her up. She was terrified of him. Pictures of the woman with blue bruises across her face and body were handed to the court to show the abuse she was being subjected to. The parties involved were not identified in order to safeguard the vulnerable woman. He sister turned to the court to be appointed as her curator. Acting Judge Norman Davis granted the order, which in effect meant that all decisions regarding the woman would in future be taken by the sister. The sister said in papers before the court that the woman, who is in her 50s, had only now found peace as she was in an institution which cared for her. She asked that the husband not interfere in anyway whatsoever and that he did not contact his wife. While she was aware of her sister being abused over the years, the last straw was when the woman fled from her home. Her son and other family members searched for her. A neighbourhood watch eventually found her standing along a road and took her home, but her husband refused to open the door for them. She was then taken to the police station, where she remained until the next morning. But when the shifts were changing, the woman managed to slip out and disappeared. She was found late that night again standing alone under a tree in front of a school. Her sister said it was clear that she could not look after herself and her husband was not bothered to take care of her. She told the court that the husband had dominated his wife since they got married and if anyone phoned her, he would stand next to her and told her what to say. The woman often fled to neighbours during the night when her husband assaulted her, but she always later returned. The neighbours also on occasion phoned the police and the husband once had to spend a night in the police cells. The wife, however, never brought charges against him. “My sister held two jobs until recently just to bring money into the house." “She was often so tired that she fell asleep at work, only to be teased by her fellow workers who took pictures of her with her head on her desk." “She at night had to rush home, after she had to walk a distance in the dark, to cook for her husband for making things uncomfortable for him, as he had to have his dinner late,” the sister said. The court heard that when her family decided enough was enough and took her, without her husband’s consent to a care centre, the woman beamed. “It was clear that she felt safe for the first time,” she said. Pretoria News