His father, Moses Singh, approved of that decision mainly because of the quality of football players Farouk Khan had produced over the years; who were now living successful lives playing the sport. The only challenge was that Khan didn’t have a junior outfit for Singh to train with, with the Castle League senior team being the only active side playing in competitive matches at that time. This is where the 19-year-old star, who now plies his trade for Portugal’s Braga FC’s reserve team, learned how to wait his turn. Singh was only 14 when he made his debut appearance for Khan’s academy and since then, he has never looked back. Khan believes that characteristic of patiently waiting for his turn has since stayed with the player after all these years. The Stars of Africa Academy boss also added that the lad from Noordgesig is most likely to hit the ground running, should he be given half a chance to make his debut for Bafana Bafana in Tuesday’s international friendly against Angola at East London’s Buffalo City Stadium (7pm kickoff). “We were playing a team from his neighbourhood, Noordgesig, and that’s where I decided he should make his debut for the team,” Khan recalled. “He was a bit scared at first, but I threw him into the deep end anyway. “After the match, his father came to me in disbelief, saying: ‘Khan, I can’t believe this is the very same child I left in your care some three years ago, and he’s now playing like this?’ "I understood his shock. Luther was the youngest player in that match, playing against players 24-year-old and even older. “And that’s just the way he is,” Khan added. “Luther doesn’t see frame, size or muscle when he’s on the field of play. If you put Goliath in front of him, Luther is going to take that Goliath down. I believe he’s going to surprise a whole lot of people should he be given a chance to play (against Angola). He’s that type of player.”   Khan added that Singh is most likely to achieve more great things in his career, just as long as he continues to keep his feet on the ground and continue working. “Stars of Africa have been really fortunate in the past few years,” Khan said. “We’ve had quality players who came out of our structures to go on and do well for themselves in their respective careers. “Players such as Tokelo Rantie, May Mahlangu, Tefu Mashamaite and Sibusiso Khumalo, to mention but a few, have become household names. "Luther Singh is just one of those players who is also going to do great in his playing career. And I say that because Braga has a young reserve squad. He told me that he’s happy there. And that’s key. "They also have a coach who believes in promoting young talent into the senior team. I won’t be surprised if he makes it there soon. He’s got the right attitude to achieve just that.” @Mohau_Ra Pretoria News