“All batting units at international level will always have one player that is struggling for form,” Domingo said. “That is okay, you can’t rely on one player. That is why it’s a batting unit. That is why it’s a team. The team has to try and help those players get out of those slumps.” Domingo also pointed out that it wasn’t a unique situation, and that these dips in form go around a team. Not too long ago, Temba Bavuma was in the midst of a lean run, but he seems to have turned a corner in New Zealand. “Every player has been in those slumps. We have two or three players who are feeling that pressure at the moment and that is a concern. It’s always easier to have one, but if you have two or three who are searching for form and runs, it does become a bit more challenging,” Domingo explained. He did add, with some cheer, that it was a good thing that there are runs coming from several, other sources. “We are fortunate that some guys are in good form; Dean Elgar, Temba Bavuma, Quinton de Kock and Faf du Plessis, they are all in good touch and it is helping the cause.” The nature of these things is that problems such as an opener, a number three and four being out of touch is far more critical when results are not going one’s way. New Zealand have the same issues, but theirs are far more glaring, given that they are 1-0 down in the series. If the Proteas can come through Hamilton unscathed, they will add yet another scalp on the road to a travelling CV that is up there with the very best the game has ever seen. “We have lost one series away from home in the last 10 years,” the Proteas’ coach pointed out. “The one in India was the one we lost. “The side takes a lot of pride in how well we travel. They enjoy each other’s company; enjoy seeing new countries. That is one of the main ingredients for why we travel well and play good cricket; the guys enjoy being together.” Winning and enjoying tends to go hand-in-hand, and the Proteas plan to have an enjoyable final week in New Zealand, where they have impressed with their intensity on the field, and their generosity of spirit off the park. “It’s a massive feat for this side to come here being 1-0 up with one to play. We know it’s not done yet. New Zealand are a quality side and we are going to have to be at our best to beat them.” The one concern for the Proteas ahead of the final Test is their star wicket-keeper/batsman, De Kock. He was taken for scans yesterday after injuring his right index finger during the second Test in Wellington, though the results of those scans have not been publicised at the time of going to press. The third and final Test in Hamilton starts tomorrow night at 11pm.