Pretoria – Pictured is the first public view of the inside of Sun International’s R4 billion Time Square development at Menlyn Maine, which consists of a casino, hotel, conference centre and a multi-purpose arena that will serve both local residents and visitors to the capital city. Time Square forms part of the broader Menlyn Maine’s R8bn “Green City” development. When complete, the site will become the largest mixed-use precinct ever to have been built in the capital – and the greenest. The buildings that make up the precinct have all been designed with the aim of achieving a best practice four-star rating from the Green Building Council of South Africa. Sun International’s R4bn Time Square development represents a substantial capital investment in Gauteng tourism, and will act as a major catalyst for growth in the capital. Time Square will be the second largest casino in South Africa (only Sun’s GrandWest Casino in Cape Town is larger). It represents the company’s biggest investment in a casino development in 15 years. Based on the multiplier effect, Time Square expects to deliver a cumulative contribution to GDP of approximately R19bn during the construction phase and the first five years of operation. During the first five years of operation, Time Square is expected to raise about R1.7bn in gaming taxes and VAT. The total estimated revenue to the government over this period is estimated at R2.7bn. An estimated R32 million will be spent on social investment and enterprise development over the first five years. During the construction phase, an estimated 10 000 jobs were created. After completion, Time Square will create about 2 200 permanent jobs, with 1 228 jobs being provided by Sun International and a further 972 through service providers. The approximately 600 Morula Casino staff members have all been offered new jobs at Time Square, which many have elected to accept. When it is complete, Time Square will be the most exciting leisure attraction in the region, offering 24-hour entertainment. The new Arena will have capacity for 8 500 people, making it one of the largest under-cover entertainment facilities in Gauteng. A state-of-the-art casino will cater for the needs of both smokers and non-smokers. The casino, which extends over two floors, also includes an exclusive salon privé. Designed to meet cutting-edge international standards in technology, the Time Square Casino will offer 2 000 slot machines with innovative new games and 100 tables. There will be world-class conferencing facilities, 12 seminar rooms, three breakaway rooms and a hotel. The development will include a range of retail shopping as well as 18 new restaurants, lounges and bars, offering a diversity of cuisines and experiences. The parking area has capacity for 3 800 vehicles. Pretoria News