City spokesperson Lindela Mashigo said municipal resort swimming pools would only be open from Mondays to Fridays. “The decision to shut them down is to reduce any risks due to the non-availability of lifeguards. The situation is being assessed at the moment and the public will be informed when there is a change in this regard,” he said. The affected pools are Ga Mothakga Resort, Kwaggaspruit Resort, Klipkruisfontein Resort, Fountains Valley Resort, Moretele Park Resort, Derdepoort Resort and Joos Becker Caravan Park. Several people have voiced their unhappiness about the closure of the pools. A pupil who asked not to be named said: “Weekends are the only time I could go there to relax and chill out. “I’m not happy that resort pools will not be operating on weekends; what will we do in this hot weather? Where will me and my friends relax or hang out?” Residents vented their fury on social media in response to a tweet from the City that stated “municipal pools in resorts will be closed over weekends and public holidays due to the non-availability of lifeguards”. Nthabi Many said: “This is not on; it’s summer, weekdays and holidays are perfect times to swim. Get lifeguards or train new ones, but please open the pools!” Danie Botha lambasted the city management, saying: “We should question management. "If this was a legit decision made in a boardroom, the red flags should be waving loud and clear.” Residents demanded that the City trained or hired more lifeguards or sign up volunteers. And they complained about the City having problems when the temperatures had risen. “Why don’t you hire or let volunteers take part. It's summer now we want to swim,” one resident said. In response, the City tweeted: “We will get these swimming pools working soon so that residents of the capital can continue using them for their enjoyment and fun.” Mashigo apologised to members of the public for the inconvenience, saying: “We apologise for any inconvenience that may arise as a result of the interruption of leisure activities.” The matter would be handled this week and a way forward would be discussed. “The matter has not been resolved as yet, but a meeting will be held to discuss a way forward,” Mashigo said.