As an authority in ENT, he specialises in treating  ear, nose and throat ailments plus  other related structures of the head and neck. Tshifularo is also a pastor who runs his own church, and this week he revealed that he loved to do charity work and to teach. “I love life and am happy to be a South African. “We have a rich culture and everything is on top of the world here,” he added. He started his career as a lecturer at  the Medical University of Southern Africa in 1995, and at that point discovered that the country was blessed, and that people only needed to be encouraged to take ownership of their lives to thrive. He also loves innovation and is currently working on a new project, which he was very excited about: “Shh I cannot talk about it at the moment,” he said. Tshifularo, who loves exercising and bird watching, told the Pretoria News: “I love nature and I am happy to be a South African in a country that has such beautiful landscapes.” Here, he shares some of his out-of- hospital life experiences with us: Are you originally from the capital city? No, I am from Venda in Limpopo. I came to the city in 1995 to teach at Medunsa. What do you like about the city? It is the beautiful Jacaranda city and the people here are a pleasure to live and work with. Where do you hang out or go for fun? I go to the zoo, and sometimes I visit the monuments and the botanical gardens. I am a keen bird watcher so I love going to Hartbeespoort Dam too. What five things would you change if you were mayor? First, I would like to keep our city clean; it is very dirty, we really need to clean up. Second, I would rid the streets of street girls and boys and house them in a shelter. I am a pastor and our church does look after them. We do a lot of charity work, and we give them clothes and food. My church does go around the city giving the homeless of Pretoria soup and other things, but the places they are living, the streets, are not good for them. Another thing, I would improve on service delivery and teach people to love their city as well as the country, and make them want to do something about it and how it looks. They must not just wait and wait. We need to teach them to want to work and make a difference. It is nice to work and make a difference. I would also introduce changes to our education system. I would encourage a lot of young people to get into education and innovation. I am an innovator and am busy working on something that is going to revolutionise medical innovation, so watch this space Another area I would change are hospital services. One of the biggest problems with hospitals is the referral system. For us, the problem at Steve Biko Academic Hospital, which is a teaching institution, is the equipment. We need to get the best equipment so we can train the best doctors, because when we don’t have the best equipment we don’t have the best training facilities. The medical training in this country is still among the best, so the University of Pretoria, being one of the top five institutions in the country, should have the best available equipment.  What are the advantages of living in the city? Its easy to drive around, the streets are wide, and there are a lot of one-way streets which makes it easy to move from one place to another. Also, things in this city are not far from each other like they are in Johannesburg. If you could move away from the city, where would you go to and why? I would relocate to Hartbeespoort Dam because it has beautiful scenery. Being there would be like being on holiday at home because the landscape is so beautiful. And it is an up-and-coming town, so I would like to go there. Which sports team do you support? I like soccer, I sympathise with Matsatsantsa, Sundowns but I am a Chiefs supporter. Which mode of transport do you use and is it convenient? I drive my own car as it is convenient and easy it’s okay. However, the Gautrain is one the best
modes of transport ever, as is A Re Yeng. If I were to use public transport I would use these. Of course, the main thing is safety and security.