On the surface, the week is an opportunity for South Africans to gain free day entry into the parks to experience the wide variety of landscapes the country has to offer. But it goes further than that, speakers at the event stressed, with a focus on celebrating heritage, encouraging younger visitors and empowering local communities. SANParks head Fundisile Mketeni said the week event, which started 
11 years ago (2006), was intended 
to cultivate a sense of pride in 
South Africa’s natural and cultural heritage. Parks are also a symbol of social cohesion and, as such, it was important for them to attract a diverse group of visitors and to support local communities. Speaking during a briefing ahead of the grand launch, he said the event last year attracted 62000 visitors. The work being done by SANParks to create sustainable development in rural communities was welcomed by Deputy Minister of Tourism Elizabeth Thabethe. Parks which previously stood alone from their communities were now very much a part of them so SANParks Week was about extending the park offerings to them. SANParks executive for tourism development, marketing and communication Hapiloe Sello stressed the need for national parks to attract a younger generation of visitors. Table Mountain and the Kruger National Park are the major drawcards, but the week highlights other parks and their offerings. Golden Gate was chosen for this year’s event to promote tourism offerings in this dramatic part of the northern Free State. Existing attractions are the Basotho Cultural Village, scenic drives, hiking, horse riding, hiking and canoeing. Speaking of additional plans for the park, Sello said the altitude and dramatic landscape lent itself to adventure activities such as ziplining, abseiling and quad biking. Plans were also announced for creating a world-class Dinosaur Interpretative Centre after the 
oldest fossil record of a dinosaur’ egg clutch was discovered at the 
Golden Gate park. While SANParks treasured its loyal international and local visitors, it was clear that its facilities must be inclusive and accessible to all South Africans, and be affordable, Sello said. In her official address Thabethe said it was “a painful reality that the process of the country’s national parks’ establishment during colonial and apartheid times had been characterised by an alienation of black people from their land”. “It is incumbent on all of us as South Africans to implement such programmes which represent a shift and allow people to visit the parks to connect to the very core of our nature,” she said. “The scenic beauty of our country is worthless unless shared with those communities historically marginalised from these areas to create these parks,” she said. Aside from promoting parks during the week, the event also celebrates those living and working in and around the parks, with a sports and choir competition on the programme.