Over time, historians have debated the role and status of women in pre-colonial vs colonial society, explored how women have dealt with changing forms of oppression, examined how phenomena like domesticity became gendered and unearthed women’s roles in national struggles for independence in pre-colonial contexts. Women have been shown to be essential historical, economic and social actors in practically every region of Africa for millennia. But many of their achievements and struggles have been lost in the history books contrary to blithe acknowledgement of their contribution in shaping world events. Historiography illustrates a rather poignant involvement of women in influencing the political landscape and human civilisation itself. During the 1962 Algerian War of Independence, women fought as equals alongside men. They achieved a new sense of their own identity and a measure of acceptance from men. In the aftermath of the war, women maintained their new-found emancipation and became more actively involved in the development of the new state. Records do reflect that even during the darkest days of history there were women who broke the patriarchal mould and gender stereotypes by making a majestic contribution in human development - Marie McKeown captures some of these experiences in her article Women through history: Women’s experience through the age. She says throughout history, women have had different experiences at different times. Some societies had women who were warriors, powerful priestesses and political leaders. At other times strict expectations were placed on women, with (male) writers portraying them as inferior to men. Looking at how a society treats its women can be very enlightening. An investigation into the position of women at various points in history shows us how our society has grown and changed. Women enjoy a reasonable level of equality in present-day Western society. Unfortunately, the further back in history you go, the less equality women will have had. However, the truth is not so simple. In fact, women through history have gained and lost power at different times. Surprisingly perhaps, ancient history records many strong female figures - rulers and warriors who did deeds the history-writers thought worthy of recording. Cleopatra, Boudicca, Ester. The first poem written down, which has survived to the present day, was written by Enheduanna. She was a priestess in Sumerian civilisation and the poem is a prayer of praise to a female deity called Inanna. So, the first known author was a woman - very interesting given that in later times women were discouraged from writing and even learning to read! The impact of Greco-Roman culture was significant. Within the Roman Empire, for example, women had a role defined by staying at home and staying out of politics. The Greeks may have invented democracy but they didn’t give women the vote. However, in other parts of the ancient world, women played a significant historical role. On August 9, 1956, some 20000 women marched from various regions to the apartheid capital of Pretoria. They represented a cross-section of women, most of whom were African, who resided and worked in urban and rural areas. The ANC Women’s League was banned alongside the parent organisation after the apartheid police opened fire on demonstrators, killing 69 and wounding nearly 200 in what became known as the Sharpeville Massacre of March 21, 1960. Nonetheless, this tradition of struggle was to carry over through the 1980s and 1990s. In 1994 the masses of workers and youth were able to overturn the racist apartheid system. To fully challenge gender inequality and the impoverishment of women and children in Africa, the struggle must be directed against Western domination and capitalist relations of production. This struggle in Africa can be supported by anti-imperialist forces in the industrialised states when they demand that their own governments honour the right of self-determination and sovereignty of the oppressed, post-colonial nations. The democratic dispensation that came in 1994 ushered in new policies and legislations that disrupted the status quo on gender politics. After 1994, apartheid did not necessarily end, hence the need to continue disrupting the status quo. Gender inequalities still persist and this has been proven by a number of research and survey outcomes. The race relations report illustrates that most households are still led by women over 65 years - an indication that circumstances of women have not necessarily changed. The challenges faced by women are even more complex because they happen in a different context, and call for more sophisticated approaches. There is a need for women to craft a new struggle towards social and economic independence. Reference to foremothers who were able to rise despite repressive and oppressive circumstances is but one option. Nigeria-born novelist and feminist Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie warns of “the danger of a single story”. In her TedX talk, she relates how she found her authentic cultural voice and warns that if we hear only a single story about another person or country, we risk a critical misunderstanding. As much as it is encouraged of the current generation to explore sectors which were historically reserved for men, women have an obligation to preserve their own history and narrate their stories in their own voices. Qondile Khedama is Mangaung metro’s head of communications and writes in his personal capacity.