The win boosted their confidence ahead of this weekend’s Gauteng schools meeting. The kings of the chess board beat off competition  from Constantia Park, Lynnwood, Menlopark, Wierdapark, Hennopspark, Midstream Ridge, Monument Park and Rooi-
huiskraal primary schools during the competition held at Hoërskool Garsfontein. The under 9s (who won 36/42 games), under 11 (with 26.5 of 30 games) and under 13 (with 27.5 of 30 games) teams all took first place. “They spent hours every afternoon in front of a chess board,” said Crawford Prep’s spokesperson, Jeanette Engelbrecht. “A team that plays together for a long period of time gets to know each other’s strengths very well,” she said. The team has been under the watchful eye of coach Elben Collen for the past eight years, she added. Collen said his vision for the team was to achieve first place for 10 consecutive years. “I am very pleased to say that it is the seventh year in a row that the under 9s have came first, the fifth year for the U11s and the fourth for the U13s.” Engelbrecht was confident too, saying the school had 10 national players in its schools chess team, with some having participated at an international level. “The players take their games seriously and always show amazing sportsmanship whenever they compete,” she added. With their success, Crawford Prep qualified for the Gauteng Top Schools Championships where ace young players in primary and high schools across the province go head to head. At the contest representatives for the province are selected to compete at the national championships later in the year. The championships are organised by the Gauteng Department of Sport, Arts, Culture and Recreation, the Gauteng Department of Education, the Gauteng Schools Chess Committee and the Tshwane Chess Union and will be held at the Mamelodi Campus of the University of Pretoria. A total of 1 500 keen chess players will participate to prove themselves to be masters. But the school’s first priority remained ensuring that pupils got high grades, Engelbrecht added, saying no pupil was forced to participate in sports, but they were encouraged to find a balance. “Crawford Pretoria subscribes to ‘Crawfordology’- an ethos where pupils are not forced to participate in sport but are encouraged to do so. "This is because the balance of body and mind is an important factor in the development of the their academic potential,” she said. “We truly believe that every child is a masterpiece and we work with them as individuals to develop their talent in any area they are comfortable.” Besides being known for its academic excellence, the school also excels in soccer and cricket, and has come out tops in many leagues. Tomorrow, will see 1 500 players from primary and high schools across Gauteng compete in the Tuks championship.