In it he refers to Ramaphosa’s call to Independent Media owner Dr Iqbal Survé to try to stop publication of the allegations. He outlines his work to verify the reliability of the leaked e-mails allegedly sent by Ramaphosa to various women, and his reason for going ahead with publication of the article despite Ramaphosa’s bid to block him. He speaks of the aspersions cast on his credibility and the personal threats that have followed the publication, the fact that the questions he sent the deputy president were leaked to opposition media, and lashes out at media bias which saw support for the SABC8 (the journalists who would not back down from opposition to Hlaudi Motsoeneng) but not for him. He also gives more damning detail of the e-mails, saying they were “accompanied by pictures, erotic videos and deposit slips”, and says that “out of respect for him (Ramaphosa) and the office that he holds” he had sent an SMS and e-mailed the questions to him, rather than his spokesman. But, Motale claims in the statement, when he asked for a private e-mail address, the deputy president sent one on the Thursday (prior to publication) which was the same as that on the leaked e-mails, used allegedly to communicate with the women concerned. “It was only after we e-mailed him questions later the same day that he realised his blunder,” said Motale who believes that it was then that Ramaphosa went “all out” to ensure the allegations did not reach the public. “First, he deployed his campaign manager, one Benjamin Chaucer, to meet me. While I was awaiting his response to my questions, Ramaphosa sent me an SMS on Friday, just minutes before the expiry of the 5pm deadline (given to him). “He told me he was unable to meet the deadline and needed ‘to collate information’ to put to me about the allegations,” said Motale who extended the deadline to Saturday morning. But, he says, minutes later the questions he had sent to one of the women concerned found their way on to social media, followed later by those sent to Ramaphosa. “My cellphone did not stop ringing. I was bombarded with calls by the media, the public who wanted me to confirm whether the questions had been sent by me. At the same time, I started receiving death threats from callers claiming to be Ramaphosa’s supporters,” Motale said. He said Ramaphosa, instead of responding to the questions, even called Survé, “begging him to make sure that The Sunday Independent would not publish the story”. Motale said Survé had spoken to him, and gave the assurance that he would not interfere in Motale’s editorial independence, although he stressed the need for the material to undergo rigorous expert scrutiny. Motale said he did consider holding the story back, but when his questions to Ramaphosa were leaked, the only thing to do was to go ahead in order to defend his credibility. He said the story which was published was a “sanitised” version. Meanwhile, he claims Ramaphosa communicated with competitor media, “giving them interviews about his private life which were going to be published on Sunday, the same day our story was going to hit the shelves”, and he released two statements and then “dragged us to court in a bid to interdict The Sunday Independent from publishing”. Motale says in the statement that Ramaphosa is still to deny the existence or veracity of the e-mails, and his objection is around the publication of their content on the basis of privacy. He said as a high-ranking leader of the ruling party, bidding to become the next president of the ANC at the elective conference in December, and of the country thereafter, he did not enjoy the same rights to privacy as ordinary citizens. Meanwhile, Motale says his life has been threatened, yet Ramaphosa had said nothing. He lashed out at the “campaign of vilification” against him personally and The Sunday Independent which, he said “lays bare a campaign of factionalism and bias in the media". "The media industry was quick to rally around the SABC8 and to take action against (BLF's Andile) Mngxitama when he threatened certain journalists, yet it was silent when my life was threatened. This hypocrisy and their unwillingness to report without fear or favour, but instead openly back and protect certain politicians to unseat others is a terrible threat not just to press freedom but to media integrity,” Motale said. He calls on Ramaphosa to “come clean on the allegations before even more is revealed”, saying that more women have approached the Sunday Independent wanting to tell their stories. He bewails the media response, saying it is a different scenario to the alacrity with which the so-called Gupta-leaks have been handled or the reaction to the sex scandal of Jeff Radebe. He also complains about media efforts to link him to Mngxitama and businessman Kenny Kunene, both of whom were in court late on Saturday when Ramaphosa’s application against The Sunday Independent was heard. “As for myself, irrespective of how the deputy president tries to sidestep the truth and avoid responsibility for his actions, irrespective of the scorn heaped on me by our competitors and irrespective of the death threats that I am facing and may face in future, nothing will deter me from revealing the truth,” Motale said.