However, Makhura said he would not hasten to intervene in municipal affairs despite having the constitutional powers to do so as the number one citizen in the province. “I don’t want to emphasise the intervention. However, I will make sure that everything happens to ensure service delivery is sustained in the city. That’s my wish.” In the same breath, he warned that if certain decisions were not made as a result of the political differences, he would be forced to intervene. “But intervention is the last resort. I wish we don’t get to that point,” Makhura said. He was speaking to the Pretoria News yesterday ahead of the Ntirhisano outreach programme in the city scheduled for tomorrow. As part of the programme, Makhura will revisit service delivery programmes previously rolled out by the provincial government in the capital city. The monthly council sitting in the city collapsed last week after EFF councillors opted not to attend due to the party’s ongoing differences with the ruling DA in the Nelson Mandela Bay metro over the axing of deputy mayor Mongameli Bobani. ANC councillors then walked out, saying they would not assist the DA to govern. They noted that they wanted to show the DA that it could not govern without other parties. Without the 50% plus one majority, the DA was unable to continue with the meeting, leaving major decisions hanging. Executive mayor Solly Msimanga, who has been heading the multi-party coalition government since last year, nonetheless stated the DA was not about to walk away from the government. Makhura refused to be drawn into the political reasons behind the situation. “Coalitions are party political issues and you would understand that I am coming from a different party; I come from the ANC. We don’t have a coalition with the DA and the EFF. “I don’t want to engage on what their issues are because those are political issues. How they got together is essentially their private affair,” he said. Makhura acknowledged that coalitions were as a result of wishes by voters, but pointed out that the pattern of governance was disastrous to democracy. Coalition governments rendered governance “unstable” and consequently impacted “severely” on service delivery, he said. “It is worse if those coalitions had diverse philosophical orientations and policy views.” Makhura said the recent development worried him from the point of view of provincial government. “I can’t sit back if service delivery in Gauteng collapses, regardless of who is in charge,” Makhura said. He expressed the willingness to work with all the mayors to foster economic and social transformation. He praised the working relationship he had with Msimanga, saying it was better than other mayors who tended to be partisan. “We are working very well with the mayor. Some mayors are too political partisans,” he said. The premier pledged his support to the city, saying he would ensure that there was no collapse of services in the metro. He said the city was allocated the biggest of the infrastructure budget amounting to R2.9billion. Msimanga had conceded that the absence from the council and lack of co-operation were stalling much-needed service delivery in the capital. Makhura also advised voters to vote for political parties not on the basis of a coalition. “I want to argue that coalition government will not deliver democratic consolidation and transformation that is so necessary to lift millions of South Africans out of poverty,” Makhura said. According to him, coalition problems were not only experienced in the capital city. “The situation is impacting on the ability of the City to deliver. It is not only here; it is soon going to get to the City of Joburg,” he said. Makhura said the cycle of instability caused by coalitions was permanent and inherent. “If you think of it we are in for five years of uncertain capacity and abilities for our municipalities to deliver to the electorates,” he said.