The Zimbabwean international has been the talk of the local transfer window, alongside Jeremy Brockie of SuperSport United. Billiat (27) has been a revelation for Sundowns in the past four years since joining them from Ajax Cape Town in 2013. He was influential in the Brazilians winning two league titles, a Nedbank Cup, a Telkom Knockout, a Caf Champions League title and the Caf Super Cup. He also represented Sundowns at the Fifa Club World. At the beginning of the year, he campaigned at the African Cup of Nations for the Warriors. Billiat lost the African Player of the Year based in Africa to his compatriot Denis Onyango but had won the local PSL's Footballer of the Year two seasons ago. Al Nassr of Saudi Arabia did make an offer for Billiat but it wasn’t adequate enough for Sundowns to release him. Mosimane believes that Billiat is ready to make the grade in Europe. “I think it is the right time now (for Khama to move abroad). It is the right time, hey. How did Keagan (Dolly) go? How does a player go? What needs to happen? When he is contracted, what needs to happen? Terminate the contract and say you’ve done well for us go? An important player that you bought? Do you do that? Because it is time. You got to do the business. So, let the business happen,” Mosimane stated. Billiat has seen teammates such as Bongani Zungu and Dolly leave the club and fulfil their European dream. Both of them are in France. “I said to Khama if you can bring the performance that saw you carrying all the balls at the PSL Awards, this release clause, they will trigger it,” Mosimane explained. "You need to get back to that level and they will trigger this release clause and they can say come and play. Even Alexis Sanchez had offers six months before the window opened at Arsenal but they didn’t release him because they were not happy with the offers they received. "If you want to sign Khama and you are the team from outside, this guy has got six months on his contract. You can pick him up for free after six months. He is a hot player. Do you want to wait for six months? "Somebody is going to buy him within the six months. I’ve been there, I know these things. You will be left wanting, thinking you were going to get him for free. "Did you see what happened to Rivaldo (Coetzee)? I couldn’t wait. It is better to get him now on a rebound where he says I don’t want to play for Ajax, I’m there on a rebound." Billiat is set to spend the next six months at Sundowns. He was present on Friday when his team came against up Polokwane City in a friendly match.