The Reiteretse Car Wash, built along the busy Tsamaya Road, was inaugurated two years ago by former mayor Kgosientso Ramokgopa. During its opening ceremony Ramokgopa promised it would create at least 50 jobs for the local young people in its first year. Also in attendance was Premier David Makhura, who was upbeat about the facility’s future. Ramokgopa pledged to support the business by having fleets of municipal vehicles washed there. The initiative was punted as a way to revitalise the township economy. Makhura, speaking to the Pretoria News ahead of his visit to the project today, expressed his wish to see it up and running again. “I'd like to see that project succeeding. We launched it with a lot of fanfare in the township." The project was a way of keeping young people out of drugs and out of crime, he said. Makhura’s visit is part of the Ntirhisano Outreach Programme aimed at keeping tabs on service delivery projects rolled out by the government. Regarding an apparent lack of support for the car wash project from the City, Makhura said he would ask mayor Solly Msimanga about the reasons which had led to its collapse. “The township economy is a project that the mayor supports, but if he has stopped a specific project like this one, I want to be able to convince him that the city must support those young people in Mamelodi,” he said. If there was something wrong with the project, it had to be fixed, Makhura said. “I want these projects, not only in this city, not only in Mamelodi, but all over Gauteng where we have township economy initiatives under way,” he said. He promised to make sure the province got involved in the project in case the city would cite limited resources as a reason for its failure. Makhura will also visit Mahube Valley informal settlement, a section in the township which has illegal residents. Dwellers at the settlement made headlines earlier this year when they clashed with residents from the adjacent formal houses over illegal electricity connections. At one stage the tense situation between the two communities turned violent with some houses petrol-bombed. In a desperate effort to address the problem, Msimanga announced the intention to build a wall to separate homeowners and illegal land occupants and curb the violence. However, he withdrew that intention following public pressure. Makhura said the illegal land occupation in Mahube Valley was not an isolated incident, but a widespread problem in the province. “Sometimes our people think that every piece of land must be used for building RDP houses and that's where illegal land occupation comes in,” he said. He stressed the importance of spatial development planning and the need for municipalities to enforce by-laws as a way to deal with illegal land invasions. Makhura said proper urban development was good for citizens. “Every development must integrate the haves and the have-nots,” he said. Part of sustainable urban planning required the community to know that some land were earmarked for other initiatives, he said. Makhura said a lot of agricultural land was being lost to property development and that was among problems to be addressed by the Gauteng spatial development framework. “Malls are emerging everywhere and there are so many of them. They take over important areas of land we must use for small scale agriculture,” he said. Housing was a problem, with a backlog affecting 600000 people despite the construction of 1.2 million homes. Makhura talked about the business outsourcing process. “The Business Process Outsourcing park is going to benefit young people in Hammanskraal; ultimately 3000 of them but it will first open with 1000 beneficiaries,” Makhura said. It was an important intervention in the township space to create jobs.