Durban - One of the suspects linked to the murder of former ANCYL general secretary, Sindiso Magaqa was shot and killed by police during a foiled cash-in-transit heist earlier this month. Police on Monday said Jabulani Mdunge,38, who resided in Berea and KwaMashu Hostel was allegedly part of a group of ten armed robbers who were involved in a shootout with police on the N2, between Harding and Kokstad on September 1. Hawks spokesperson, Brigadier Hangwani Mulaudzi said the men were allegedly on their way to commit a cash-in-transit robbery when they were intercepted by police. READ: Hawks swoop on #SindisoMagaqa suspect "When confronted by police, the suspects opened fire on police and in the exchange of gunfire, three suspects were shot and killed while seven were arrested. A number of firearms including AK 47 rifles and handguns were confiscated the by police. Mdunge was allegedly killed during the shootout and has been identified and linked as one of the suspects that matched the profile through forensic intervention.  Attempts to apprehend the second suspect are still underway," Mulaudzi said. Magaqa, who was laid to rest at the weekend was with two fellow ANC colleagues, Nonsikelelo Mafa and Jabu Mzizi in the uMzimkhulu area when the car they were in was riddled with bullets. ALSO READ: Hawks release identikits in ANC councillors' shooting Magaqa was recovering at the Inkosi Albert Luthuli Central Hospital when he succumbed to his injuries. At the time of his death, Magaqa served on the council and as Member of the Mayoral Committee (MMC) in the Harry Gwala district. Meanwhile, Mulaudzi said the Hawks are offering a reward of up to R450 000 for any information that could lead to the arrest and successful conviction of suspects responsible for the ongoing political killings in the Kwazulu-Natal. "Almost 35 suspects have arrested in 10 murder cases.  Almost 24 cases are still under investigation and 28 fire-arms have been seized," he said. Anyone with any information is asked to call Brigadier Bongani Maqashalala on0824829596 and strict confidentiality will be guaranteed. Daily News