The informal car guards who operate in the Hatfield area and around the University of Pretoria were awarded their certificates during a graduation ceremony at the university. The certificates were handed to them by Brooklyn Police Station commander Brigadier Kushie Nair. She took the initiative by establishing a car guard forum in January this year. Nair wanted to address social inequalities and the opportunity to better their lives. The idea was to give the car guards back some of their dignity, while also making them law-abiding residents of the Brooklyn policing precinct, police spokesperson Captain Colette Weibach said. “For many years informal car guards working in the congested parking areas in Hatfield and the surrounding areas of the university were seen as an irritation and a crime contributor.” Weibach said the relationship between the car guards and the police was always contentious and adversarial. The Brooklyn police adopted a tolerated and social crime prevention approach by involving the car guards in an upliftment programme that was presented by the University of Pretoria. The car guards attended crime prevention meetings and training on Thursday mornings, which were presented by Sibu Banda, a community worker from the university’s community engagement department. The training sessions covered numerous life skills subjects, including anger management, leadership skills, dress for success, how to budget, substance abuse and basic hygiene. The Hillcrest Pick *  Pay provided lunch to the guards during these training sessions. The car guards elected their own president, Nxolisi Vuyani Gabela, 31, and chairperson Michael Ndimande, 30. They represent the guards on the Brooklyn Community Police Forum (CPF). Weibach said the guards were actively taking part in crime prevention discussions. For the first time in years there is a decline in theft out of of motor vehicles. The guards also help the police with the “boot it or lose it” campaign by educating motorists to remove all valuable items out of parked vehicles. Nair said that this week had proved the car guards were bigger than their circumstances. “Their feeling of hopelessness is replaced by hopefulness. Every one of the car guards have every reason to marvel at their achievements and to be proud of who they are.” She thanked the University of Pretoria’s Community Engagement Department for believing in this initiative and for their time and dedication throughout the year. Nair said that by assisting the Gauteng police to fight fraud and corruption and by reporting suspicious activities could contribute to successfully combatting crime.