The woman and her son were fatally stabbed in their house in Soshanguve, Block R. They will be buried this weekend. Tlalane Thinane, 48, and her son Tshepo, 31, were allegedly attacked by a 25-year-old man who lived opposite their house. The woman became blind in January last year due to a brain tumour. The unemployed Tshepo looked after his mother. Tshwane North police spokesperson Captain Stephen Maluleka said the suspect was arrested and appeared in Soshanguve Magistrate’s Court on Monday. He was due for bail application on October 14. Neighbours said they heard Thinane’s loud screams for help piercing the night. Those who got there first said they found their bodies in a pool of blood. Thinane was still alive but her son had died. Both had sustained multiple stab wounds. Thinane was rushed to Dr George Mukhari Hospital, but succumbed to the wounds on Monday - hours after her niece Puleng Baloyi had sung happy birthday to her. Recalling the horror of the night, neighbour Kabelo Mabika said his mother alerted him to what sounded like screams. “At about 10pm on Saturday, I was outside my house when my mother said she heard screams. Initially she thought it was just me and my friends making noise. “When I went inside she asked who I was talking to; I told her I was alone and she said there was someone screaming.” Mabika went out to check, all the time listening to the pitiful cries, which then grew quiet. He went back into the house, but the screams started up again, growing even louder than before. He, together with other neighbours, rushed out again. “When the screams started again I ran to check and saw a young man who lived opposite their house running away carrying a bag. “I caught him and fought him trying to get the bag, but he stabbed me with a sharp object in my ear and ran away,” he said. Mabika said Tshepo and the suspect had been seen sharing drinks earlier during the day. Baloyi, who does not stay too far away, said she received a call stating that a robbery had taken plane at her aunt’s house. “I got a phone call from other relatives saying my aunt had been robbed. “I panicked and rushed to my aunt’s place, only to find police vans and angry residents all over the place. The kitchen door was slightly open and I saw my aunt and her son lying on the floor,” she said. “It was a bloodbath they had sustained multiple stab wounds on their bodies. Seeing them on the floor changed my life forever. I don’t think that memory will ever be removed from my mind.” Baloyi claimed that while waiting for the ambulance to arrive the suspected killer arrived. He said he heard that he was being accused of murder and had come to clarify things, she claimed. He then said he was there to see Tshepo’s younger brother, Pule. Baloyi said some shoes were missing from the house and they suspected he had taken them. The suspect was arrested in the early hours of Sunday. He was taken to his room by the police, who found a blood-stained jacket, T-shirt and a knife.  They also found a hoodie in the dustbin, which also linked him to the crime. Baloyi said she was initially in denial of what had happened because she had spoken to her aunt during the day, reminding her that she would take her to hospital for her regular check-up. “She was responsive during the day. It was her birthday and she appreciated birthday wishes and songs. “It broke my heart seeing them on that floor; my aunt was humble and harmless. How can you stab a blind person; how come a person who used to visit them all the time does this?”