Hundreds of thousands of the long-persecuted ethnic minority continued to stream via land and rickety boats into Bangladesh this week, arriving exhausted, dehydrated and recounting tales of nightmarish horrors at the hands of the Myanmar military, including friends and neighbours shot dead and homes torched before their eyes. “It seems they wanted us to leave the country,” said Nurjahan, an elderly Rohingya woman who escaped her burning village and ended up camped by the side of the road, unsure of where to go. The International Organisation for Migration put the number fleeing Myanmar, also known as Burma, at 370000 but admitted that it could go much higher. “Clearly the estimates have been bypassed several times over,” said spokesman Leonard Doyle. “I’m reluctant to give a number but obviously people fear that it could go much higher.” As the refugees continue to inundate the area, ferry operators are charging about $122 (R1 600) for a river crossing - far out of the reach of many. Relief efforts have been rapidly overwhelmed, with stocks of food, temporary shelter kits and other supplies running low. Prices of vegetables, bamboo and plastic sheeting used to make shelter are soaring. With camps full, many of the Rohingya refugees like Nurjahan have simply sat down on the roadside. On Tuesday, Bangladesh’s prime minister, Sheikh Hasina, visited the camps in the Cox’s Bazar area of the country, which has sheltered thousands of the stateless Rohingya refugees since an earlier exodus in the 1990s. Her foreign minister has accused Myanmar of committing “genocide”. She said Myanmar would have to take back its Rohingya, since they “created this problem, and they will have to solve it”. International condemnation of Myanmar’s leader, Aung San Suu Kyi, has intensified, along with repeated calls for her Nobel Peace Prize, which she won in 1991 as a result for her long fight for democracy, to be rescinded - something the Nobel committee says will not happen. The White House has condemned the attacks and the ensuing violence. Suu Kyi has long had strong supporters in US Congress and in the Obama administration, who saw her as the one leader who could bridge the country’s tentative transition from military junta to a civilian government. But with Suu Kyi’s continued reluctance to speak out on the Rohingya’s plight and the ensuing human rights crisis, her star has begun to dim. Her supporters say the episode has demonstrated how limited her powers are, as the military still controls 25% of the seats in the parliament as well as the security forces. Myanmar’s more than 1million Rohingya Muslims are essentially stateless and the government considers them illegal immigrants from Bangladesh.