Neither could they have led to her “sane automatism” on the day she had shot the boys. This is according to toxicologist, Dr Gert Muller, who took the stand in the double murder trial of Rehithile Katlego Matjane, 34. The mother earlier admitted in the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, to killing her sons Alvero Matjane, 2, and his brother Keyondre, 6. Matjane, who was described to the court as a highly educated woman and married to psychiatrist Dr Maxwell Matjane, said she was a loving mother who normally would never hurt her children. She said she only had “snapshot” recollections of what happened on the afternoon of April 17, 2015, when she had shot both children at a deserted spot near Hammanskraal. Matjane’s defence is one of sane automatism due to a short lasting psychotic depressive episode with suicidal trends, which led to the shooting. She blamed the side effects of a host of painkillers she took for a headache and menstrual pains about five days leading up to the incident and on the day of the shooting. The mostly over-the-counter medication she took included Symbicord Turbohaler - an asthma inhaler belonging to one of her children, Mypaid Forte, Migril and Empacod. She also had a glass of wine during lunch about three hours prior to the incident, a Red Bull and several sport supplements. The medication varied from mostly schedule 2 substances (available over the counter) and a few schedule 3 substances, for which a prescription was necessary, the court was told. Matjane was unable to state the quantity of the medication she took, but she did not claim that she had overdosed on any of it. Muller analysed each of the substances she had used and its side effects, concluding that while the long standing intake of some of these substances could eventually lead to side effects, it was highly unlikely that it contributed to her actions as it was only taken in the short term and evidently in prescribed dosages. In the case of Diclofenac - also a pain killer used for pain associated with menstruation and migraine - Muller said it could cause the exacerbation of an existing psychiatric illness, but as the mother had no history of psychiatric problems, it would not have influenced her. “I could not find an association between the medicines used by the accused and the homicide,” Muller told Judge Hans Fabricius. But defence advocate Piet Pistorius said his experts would testify that the medications had side effects. He pointed out that a witness testified that she had “foamed” at the mouth after the incident. This was proof of the toxicity of the medication, he said. Matjane earlier testified she had used a host of medication days before the incident. On the second day of using all this medication she started feeling “very sad and lonely”. She also developed suicidal thoughts. Her aches and pains continued on the day of the incident and she took more medication. Around lunchtime her desire to commit suicide was so strong that she fetched her husband’s firearm from the safe. She sat with the firearm in her hands in the car crying, but decided against killing herself. She then had lunch, which included the wine, and fetched the children. Matjane recalled strapping herself and her children in the car and her next recollection was waking up in the field.