The Unison Celebration brings together 18 South African entertainment stars on one stage for one night only. It is all about honouring local talent and creating a good news story, said Time Square general manager Brett Hoppé during the launch event at Guy Fieri’s Kitchen Bar in the Time Square casino yesterday. In attendance were musicians Lira, Vusi Nova and Idols past winner Sasha-Lee Davids, but on the promotional poster are many more well known entertainers. The line-up  includes J Something (Mi Casa), Karen Zoid and Marc Lottering. Hoppé said the concert would also pay tribute to Miriam Makeba who is to be inducted in the SA Hall of Fame at Sun City. The green dome-shaped arena is nearing completion and marks phase two of the Time Square project. Hoppé said it had the most modern rig available in the country and “sensational” acoustics. What makes the “Unison Celebration” launch concert unique is that it is a not-for-profit show, and no tickets will be sold - rather they will be given by Sun International to local media in the region for their listeners and readers to enjoy. The Pretoria News is proud to be a partner in the Unison Celebration and will soon announce details of what you, our readers, need to do to secure tickets for this must-see event. What we can tell you is that it involves you sharing with us what makes you proud of the capital city in our new campaign, “This is MY Pretoria”. It could be the Union Buildings or the jacaranda-lined streets, the zoo or botanical gardens, a church, a school, a place such as Time Square, an event, a team you support or even an individual you admire. Whatever or whoever it is that makes you able to say: THIS is MY Pretoria! The first international event at the Sun Arena Time Square is the American rock band Live on November 10 and 11, with Bryan Adams booked for December 9. Afrikaans is Groot takes over the arena from November 24 to 26  and December 1 and 2. The casino with its range of restaurants opened earlier this year, and the 18-storey Maslow Hotel - going up between Time Square casino and the arena will be open next year. Going up on the outside of the arena building - at the corner of January Masilela Drive and Aramist Street - is the country’s largest LED screen. Time Square is part of the redevelopment of the wider Menlyn precinct. It is close to Menlyn Park and opposite Menlyn Maine and The Capital Hotel, where work has also started on the luxury Trilogy Collection blocks, with its two-bedroomed apartment priced at around R3.5million.