The chairman of the Mabopane, Winterveldt, Klipgat Taxi Association, Joshua Matjane, told the Pretoria News the strike had been called off due to outstanding compliance requirements. The protest action could still proceed once the organisers have met all the requirements. Metro Police spokesperson Senior Superintendent Isaac Mahamba also confirmed that the protest was off. “We held a meeting with the taxi association on Thursday; we have not approved the march as the applicants failed to meet certain gathering act requirements" he said. “They asked to postpone the march until they are able to meet all the requirements.” Mahamba said that during a follow-up meeting, taxi owners assured commuters their drivers would be operating as normal. They further distanced themselves from the march. “We would like to assure the community that should the planned action proceed, our officers and other law enforcement agencies are ready to deal with the protest action. “Any unlawful activity will not be tolerated and will be dealt with accordingly,” he said. News of the strike which was due to take place from Monday until Thursday started circulating on social media and through flyers distributed by taxi associations last week. The Tshwane Metro Police Department confirmed it had received notices indicating a possible protest by taxi drivers in the city. They were to proceed from Soshanguve, Mabopane, Ga-Rankuwa, Atteridgeville, Mamelodi, Ekangala and Centurion to the Pretoria CBD on each day. The formal application by taxi drivers associated with the Democratic Taxi Workers Union of South Africa indicated that 
the protesters were to march to the Union Buildings to hand over a memorandum. Their issues mainly focused on grievances related to traffic fines. They had planned to gather at the old Putco Depot and march through the city. The strike was also to affect numerous main roads including the N4, R101, Ruth First, R80 and several others. Previous protest action by taxi drivers on August 16 saw all major intersections in Mabopane, Ga-Rankuwa, Soshanguve and north of Pretoria blocked. That protest had taken place despite an indication by the metro police that no permission had been granted. At the time, the taxi operators were protesting against the issuing of enforcement tickets which they said blocked their efforts of renewing driving permits and vehicle licences. Things escalated, and Metrorail train services operating from Mabopane to Soshanguve had to be temporarily suspended due to violent taxi protesters who blocked the railway lines under the Ruth First bridge. Pienaarspoort trains had to turn around at Mamelodi Gardens station after taxi drivers burnt objects at the level crossing. Reports of violence linked to the strike came from the most of the townships in the city, with commuters left stranded for the day.