This was the number of police officers killed in the line of duty between April last year and March this year. The alarming figure was revealed at the Annual National Commemoration of slain SAPS members. Family members, including children, sobbed and some fainted as the names of the fallen officers were read out, and as they walked up to the wall of remembrance to lay wreaths. Numerous widows tightly clutched the programme which had the names of their husbands in it, while their children looked traumatised. Loud screams by mourners could be heard in some instances, and wheelchairs had to be used for those who broke down in tears, too weak to walk. While the ceremony brought tears for some family members, to others it left them with a sense of closure. “My heart broke when I heard the news that my dad had passed on,” said Tebogo Lamola, 31, whose father died on duty in October. Captain Alfred  Lamola was shot by an awaiting-trial prisoner while escaping from the Tembisa Magistrate’s Court after locking three officers in a cell. He then came across Lamola on his way out and shot him in the stomach. Lamola died on the scene. He had 33 years of service. “It is not easy to accept (his death). Today we are united in sadness. I miss him each and every day,” his son said. Lamola jr said ever since his dad died their house had been a lonely echo. “We lived together, just the two of us. Now I’m all alone because of some selfish criminal,” he said. “People don’t understand that police cannot fight crime alone, and that we need to support them in any way we can; they too are mere humans.” Minister of Police Fikile Mbalula said condemning the targeting and killing of police officers without implementing stringent steps to curb the crime was not sufficient. “Police must use the ferocity of a cornered bull and the agility of a cat to fight crime,” he said. Mbalula also encouraged people to stop buying stolen goods as this contributed to the high levels of crime. He promised to resuscitate a trust to educate the children of police members who died in the line of duty. The trust, launched in 2013, has since stopped but had provided financial assistance to the children of members who died in the performance of their duties by financing the cost of their children's educational needs. It was funded by donations from private persons, families and companies. Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa and acting national police commissioner Lieutenant-General Lesetja Mothiba laid wreaths to honour the officers. Ramaphosa called on South Africans to condemn the murder of police officers. The death of one officer is one too many, he said. “We can only imagine the agony of recollecting that morning, that day or that night when loved ones left home to serve and protect and never to return,” he said. “We can only imagine the heart- wrenching pain of those left behind without a husband, wife, mother, father, brother, sister and a favourite uncle or aunt. “We feel especially for the children who wish for one more lullaby, that they could catch their fallen one more time, that they would stand watch over them one more night.” Ramaphosa also praised Mbalula for plans to resuscitate the police trust to educate the children of police members who died in the line of duty.