The two died when train commuters clashed with residents who had blocked off the railway line near Kopanong railway station. Violence broke out after commuters got off the train to disperse a group of residents who barricaded the railway line with burning tyres and stones. According to residents, commuters also set alight more than 30 shacks. Residents retaliated by beating up some commuters, killing one. Three others sustained serious injuries and were rushed to Steve Biko Academic Hospital. One died yesterday in hospital. A distraught mother of three, Magarette Baloyi, said she was inside her shack when commuters started throwing stones. She had just prepared to go to bed when her shack, built near the railway line, was set alight. Baloyi was quick to run for her life when unknown people started pelting her shack with stones. “When they started throwing stones my other children said we should not come out but I told them the attackers might cause harm to us while we were inside. We then ran outside to neighbouring shacks. “I was carrying my 4-month-old baby as we ducked stones thrown at us. Fortunately, we not injured,” she said. Baloyi recalled that a few seconds after they had vacated the shack attackers burnt it to ashes, with everything inside. “I was so scared. I have not been able to eat since then. I am still shaken,” she told the Pretoria News. Police said the community took to the street from as early as 7am, barricading Hebron Road with burning tyres and stones. Efforts by protesters to derail the train en route to Pretoria in the morning failed. However, they used more stones and burning tyres to stop the train to Mabopane in the evening. Angry commuters alighted and chased protesters away by hurling stones at them and burning their shacks. Shack dwellers retaliated by throwing stones. Four commuters were seriously injured. Resident Mpho Letlape yesterday blamed the City of Tshwane for the chaos. She said residents were angry after the city failed to fulfil promises of relocating them to Extension 19. “The RDP houses in Extension 19 were sold and others given to people who don’t even qualify,” she said. She said people were angry because they had been overlooked as rightful beneficiaries of the RDP houses. “We are fighting because our children are also affected by the unhealthy environment in which we live. At every corner in Marry Me there is a dumping site. “It is not safe here. Shacks are burning all the time because we are using paraffin stoves and candles. We should not be allowed to stay in this place while we know very well that houses were built under our names but we can be relocated to them,” Letlape said. Some residents said they had earlier this year embarked on a protest and handed a memorandum to city officials. “They promised to respond to us within two weeks,” one resident said. Soshanguve police spokesperson Zanele Mtsweni said: “The situation was monitored and there were no casualties at the, time but at about 8.30pm we received a complaint that there was public violence at Marry Me. We went there and found four males lying in pools of blood. They had injuries on their heads and faces.” Mtsweni said police had “opened a case of public violence and two cases of murder”. “We have also deployed crime intelligence in investigating and finding out what really transpired,” she said. Police appealed to communities to come forward with whatever information they had to assist them in solving the case. MMC for Human Settlement Mandla Nkomo said: “I think it is very disturbing that people had to lose their lives over service delivery in the times of democracy.”