She is part of the Mabopane community patrol. “I am up at 3am and out by 3.30am. Thieves are threatening the lives of hard-working people. I once ran after one boy who took a woman’s bag,” the 75-year-old said. Although she didn’t catch the boy the community felt that she was a brave woman. Known as Mama Dithane, she is an advocate for safety and security for her community where she has become a critical part of the SAPS anti-crime forum and scholar patrol programmes. The mother of five is a retired assistant nurse and is a role model to many, with her involvement within the community ranging from assisting the community with registering for social grants to helping the youth with solving community health issues. She also helps people to obtain title deeds, a local homeless children’s programme, and collects medication for the sick and elderly. Her involvement of caring for homeless children and disabled people has taken her to France, the US, Haiti, Belgium, Philippines and India. And while other grandmothers were enjoying their retirement, Dithane said she would retire when God took her life because helping people did not stop at a certain age. She told the Pretoria News that her parents wanted her to be a doctor but she chose to be a nurse. She has always been passionate about helping the needy and that, she said, was because she had grown up in a home where her grandmother would take in children and look after then while their parents were away. “Any child in the community that had no parents belonged to our family. “When I was a child I lived with my grandmother. She was also a nurse. Our home was known to be a shelter of everyone that did not have a home. She welcomed everybody that did not have a home. Back in the day when mothers worked in town they would leave their children at my home and later they would fetch them,” she said. As an assistant nurse, she worked at Kalafong for seven years after deciding that her passion lay in helping the needy. She volunteered to hold a soup kitchen in Schoeman Street to feed homeless children and then went on to build a homeless shelter and orphanage in Mabopane. After she went to the US to assist in establishing a homeless centre, she realised that her life lay in caring for the needy. She said she did not discriminate against anyone “because when you are open to anybody, you learn a lot”. Giving life lessons, she said that being calm and humble had taken her far; she had achieved so much by not being emotional when people were angry with her. She said when a person raised their voice at her she calmed them down to make them understand. “I’m not scared, God is always with me in everything that I do. I still have the strength and I will continue to help anyone that crosses my path,” she said. She said she always encouraged young people to get an education instead of living unhealthy lifestyles. She wanted to build an after-care centre for the children in her neighbourhood and rooms which were strictly for studying for pupils of Mabopane to go to after school. “Helping people is my ministry and legacy; everyone can come to me for help and I won’t demand anything in return,” she said. The elderly woman has 13 grandchildren, lives alone in a modest home in Mabopane, and yesterday she said the comforts around her meant nothing if she could not help others. Pretoria News