When I was in my early twenties, I’d tell myself; “as long as I am a single guy with no kids, I am not going to date a single mom”. However, when I reached my mid-twenties, I had a change of heart. I met an amazing woman who works at a supermarket. Every day, without fail, I would pop into the store to buy something, anything just to see her face and have a little chat with her. One day I swallowed my pride and asked her for her cellphone number, but she refused. I kept on going back, even if it was to buy a bottle of water. I even knew her shift rotation. Fast forward three months and she finally gave me her number. After a few cellphone chats, she mentioned her son. Then she asked me; “do you have a child?” My answer was no. She then said to me: “you boys who are childless never hang around for too long with a woman who has a child. Let’s see how this goes”. To be frank she was right. I still don’t know how to act, what to ask, what not to ask and how to start a relationship with her, simply because she has a child and I don’t. The reality is that many women in their mid- to late-twenties have kids, and most of them are single moms. That also means, equally, we have men who are dads, although many choose not to mention that and even have the nerve to say, “I want to date a childless woman”. We stigmatise and victimise single women who have children. We tend to make them feel undatable. I will be honest, perhaps that makes me immature and afraid of responsibilities. Here is what I am scared of: The likelihood that I will somehow be responsible for someone else’s child terrifies me. The possibility of a child who is going to say to me; “you are not my father, so leave me alone” when I rebuke them, discourages me. I care and attach too easily, and I wouldn’t want to see a child that I am attached to, see me detach from them. The child will always come first for the mother, and rightfully so. This could almost always place me after the child in her affection. For as long as we are still dating and not married, how far do I go to help her and the child financially, and do I even have such a responsibility? My reasons may not be sound enough to many, but they are real and honest to me. As a friend and colleague said: “I would not go all out to find a childless woman who may not even have the qualities I’m looking for in a woman". "Whereas I may find them in a single-mom who has all the characteristics I need.” I concur. The dynamics of the relationship with the mom will be a learning curve for all concerned, including the child. Where I come from, many kids were raised by fathers and mothers who are not their biological parents. Most of these children turned into adults who today don’t even know that the parents they know are not their biological parents. If a man leaves a woman and another man takes her on with her child or children, he assumes the responsibility of fathering them. I’ve never heard of baby-daddy-mama-drama in my village or even within my family. What baffles me most is this: Many women welcome single dads into their lives with open arms. Could it be that we are created, raised, or socialised so differently as men than as women? When we meet a single woman with a child, unless we  have a child too, in most cases it becomes harder for a man to date her. The fact that a woman has a child should not make her any less attractive to us than she is. Dating is a choice and while some may not want to date a single mom, that does not mean that single moms are undatable. Kabelo Chabalala is the founder of the Young Men Movement. E-mail, kabelo03chabalala@gmail.com; Twitter, @KabeloJay; Facebook, Kabelo Chabalala.