Mavula took the stand in the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, yesterday to testify against Brits businessman Schalk Myburg, 56, and his son Schalk jr, 30. It is claimed that the pair had brutally assaulted Muraga Mavula, a Brits farmer, and allegedly drove over his body. The father and son did not deny that they had an altercation with Mavula on the night of December 28, 2015. They, however, denied attacking him or running him over. They said in their explanation of plea they had no idea how he suffered the multiple injuries described in the post-mortem report. The accused said they had in fact gone to the police station to lay a charge of assault against Mavula when they were told by the investigating officer that he was dead and that they were going to be arrested for murder. Both described basically the same scenario in their explanation of plea about what happened that night. Myburg sr owned a construction company in Brits, which his son worked for. They were travelling home from fixing a client’s swimming pool in the Brits area on the night of the incident, when they saw a bakkie on the side of the road. They saw a dead animal next to the bakkie, along with a group of people while others were emerging from the bushes with another dead animal, which later turned out to be a goat. The pair stopped alongside the men and asked the victim where they got the animals from. The father and son suggested they all go to the adjacent farm to ask the farm owner whether the animals belonged to him. Myburg sr said Mavula hit his son in the face and he went to assist his son. The next thing, he said, he was punched. “I pulled him (the victim) to the ground and told my son to run for help. I was terrified at the time.” Myburg jr drove to the nearby farm, while his father was embroiled in an altercation with the victim and others, the court was told. He said he eventually ran away and hid in a ditch, until he saw his son returning with a farmer. He went back to the scene but saw that “trouble was brewing” as more people arrived on the scene. He said they left the scene and went to the Brits hospital for treatment, as both of them had suffered injuries, including bite marks from the victim. They went to the police station the next morning to open a case of assault, but they were instead arrested for murder. The pair said they had no idea that Mavula was dead, as they did nothing to him. Mavula’s widow meanwhile said she and her husband had owned a farm in the area for the past 15 years. On the night of the incident her husband left the house in his bakkie, accompanied by three of their sons. She ran a bath but her daughter, who had her cellphone at the time, came running to her, saying “mamma, mamma, daddy said whites are killing him”. The distressed widow got into her car with two of her daughters and two farmworkers and they drove to the spot where her husband said he was. On their way they saw his car along the road, with its lights still on. “I then saw his body on the side of the road, with his legs towards the road and his upper body on the grass. His shirt was torn and he was clad only in his underpants. He was dead.” The court will hold an inspection in loco today at the scene of the alleged crime.