He was speaking at the official launch of the Hopeline call centre on Monday. The mayor said it was important for every South African citizen to be part of the fight as it affected every individual. “I'm going to be talking to celebrities in terms of making this a wider campaign. Because if you are not going to partner with the government to help fight this problem, guess what? Tomorrow you are going to be a victim yourself,” he said. “So it is in our best interests that all of us actually get to partner with the government and non-profit organisations.” Hopeline is a contact call centre established to offer a lifeline to drug users through an integrated approach. Other objectives of the centre include promoting and strengthening working relationships with stakeholders on drug and substance abuse, providing information regarding substance abuse related issues, and linking users to people who can assist them whenever they can. Joining forces with the Department of Health and 23 non-profit organisations, Msimanga said the call centre would afford users and families of those affected to get in contact with 
those willing to give them an ear. “The plan is to ensure that not only are we able, at ground level, to deal with the issues of drugs and drug abuse but we are now moving it a step further, the city needs to have a point of contact in which users, parents of users or those who are thinking of using will have some kind of a line where they can get assistance,” he said. Determined to fight substance abuse, the mayor said a number of drug users were arrested this past weekend and dagga seized. The aim to fight drug problems in the city would in the coming months, see car guards being cleaned up and given employment by the city as some of them were drug users. “We are going to take some car guards and employ them permanently and also clean them up. We want to ensure that they are able to have medical aid and also have some kind of constant income.” The mayor said taking addicts to rehab did not solve the problem as they got reintroduced to drugs when they came back. However, he said it was important to treat people where the problem was. “We need to make sure that we treat people where the problem is so that they can fight the temptation right there and conquer it when they see it. That way they can say they beat drugs while they were in front of them,” said Msimanga. The mayor said people must spread the number (0123585001) so those in need of help can be assisted. Pretoria News