Elmarie Wepener, who lived in the Free State, at one point even went on a hunger strike to make her point - but all that came to an end when a judge eventually interdicted her from continuing with her smear campaign against the car giant. Wepener would not relent when Toyota told her it had nothing to do with her car problems. She wrote countless e-mails to Toyota, she threatened to report the car maker to the media and eventually resorted to holding the company to ransom by going on a hunger strike. Besides badmouthing Toyota on public forum, Wepener also at first demanded that it deliver a “white convertible Audi” to her at her home. When she did not receive her new set of wheels, Wepener’s demands changed to a Bentley and a Lexus. Wepener’s tale emerged in the Free State Division of the High Court when Toyota eventually turned to court to obtain an interdict against her. The court then ordered Wepener not to make any more defamatory statements regarding Toyota SA, which included via e-mails, on Twitter or Facebook. She bought a Mitsubishi bakkie from a second-hand outlet in 2006, which also sold Toyota vehicles. When she bought the vehicle she took out an additional policy from an unrelated broker, which insured her vehicle for three years against car problems. The vehicle, however, had to be repaired during 2009 - shortly after the three-year insurance had lapsed. Wepener was billed R40000 for the repairs. She did not pay the bill as she felt the vehicle was still under insurance. This sparked her campaign as Wepener held the dealership responsible for her legal problems, emanating from the non-payment of the repair bill. She somehow assumed that Toyota SA was responsible for her problems and insisted on it paying the bill. Toyota patiently tried to explain to her that it had nothing to do with her car problems, but Wepener would have none of it. She bombarded the car manufacturer with e-mails and eventually turned to an online campaign against it. She also notified the car ombudsman and the public protector about her problems. When Toyota eventually turned to court to gag her, Wepener, despite the advice of Judge C van Zyl, insisted on handling her own case. She insisted that Toyota was not only responsible for her outstanding repair bill, but she also invoiced it for medical and other expenses she said she had to incur due to her bill problems and subsequent trauma. The court was told that Wepener then insisted that Toyota replace her vehicle with an Audi sports “ which must be white in colour”. This later changed to a Lexus sports model. When her pleas were ignored, Wepener, in yet another e-mail to Toyota, asked when she could “come and collect her Lexus sport in white”. This later changed again to the Audi Sport, with which she wanted a three-year extended warrantee with dent and scratch cover. She enquired when she could fetch the car, as she had to make taxi arrangements. But last year in June, Wepener decided Toyota had to now supply her with a Bentley. An employee at the car dealership misunderstood her and thought she genuinely wanted to buy this luxury vehicle. He then send her a quotation of R3.2million. Toyota told Judge Van Zyl it had had enough and had no choice but to ask for an interdict, as it was near impossible to sue the apparently cash-strapped Wepener for damages.