Mamelodi Sundowns(0)1 Zakri 71 Wydad Casablanca0 THE BOLD decision to book accommodation in Algeria, get visas to fly straight there from Casablanca and this win could see the Brazilians continue their favourite past-time in the CAF Champions League  tormenting North African giants. Sundowns didn’t exactly wipe the floor with the 19-time Moroccan champions yesterday but this victory showed the Brazilians’ character to fight until the end, sending a strong message of intent in their bid to retain the Champions League. Without the injured Anthony Laffor, Yannick Zakri came off the bench to play the most important cameo in his Sundowns’ career, giving the Tshwane side a cushion going into the second leg on Saturday. The football gods blessed this occasion with a drizzle just before kick-off, forcing some fans on the far-stand to scatter into the main stand. But an army of them stayed behind, singing their lungs out like they have been without the vuvuzela diluting their sound. It took some effort to make those fans leave here happy. Wydad might not have parked the bus but they strategically positioned it to frustrate Sundowns who struggled to penetrate them. Instead of the offensive 3-4-3 they played at home against FUS Rabat, Wydad played a 4-3-3, which turned to six at the back when they defended. The Brazilians tended to play with blinkers on, only seeing one side of their flanks - the one that was manned by Tebogo Langerman on the left while ignoring Thapelo Morena who had acres of space on the right flank. The Moroccans had their eyes on Denis Onyango, ruffling his feathers and looking to get a response from the big man. Onyango has grown in stature since his heroics in last year’s Champions League along with helping Uganda qualify for the Africa Cup of Nations for the first time in almost four decades but the Ethiopian referee, Bamlak Tessema Weyesa,
was quick to act to stop Wydad’s conduct. Sundowns had most of the ball but Wydad’s defending managed to reduce that possession to nothing for the better part of this match as the Brazilians hardly troubled goalkeeper Zouheir Laaroubi. The Moroccans wanted a draw, banking on their impressive home record having won all their games at Stade Mohamed V in this competition and are yet to concede in front of their fans. A draw would have made Sundowns’ trip to Casablanca more daunting, luckily for them Zakri stepped up and threaded the ball past Laaroubi. Wydad’s defence isn’t as water-tight as they look on paper. Sundowns exposed that but struggled to punish the visitors. They will need to improve on that if they are to go to Algeria from Casablanca to take on USM Alger in the semi-finals. The Algerians returned with a crucial away goal in the 1-1 draw with Ferroviario Beira in Mozambique on Saturday and look set to settle the tie at home.