The motorists, mostly women, had apparently indulged rather more in the pleasures of the vine than the law allowed. Female motorists dominated the number of drinking and driving arrests at the weekend, which Msimanga said was worrying. Msimanga, along with members of the Tshwane metro police department, conducted numerous roadblocks around the city, which started on Saturday night in Soshanguve and ended in the early hours of yesterday morning in Centurion, following a stint in the CBD. To the surprise of everyone, seven out of 10 drivers arrested in Soshanguve were women. The fair sex did not take their defeat lightly. Some shed bitter tears at being caught with blood-alcohol levels which allegedly crossed the limit. One woman tried her luck and asked the mayor to “have a heart”, as it was spring time. “Please forgive me and give me a second chance,” she asked. Others were simply amazed and shocked at seeing the mayor himself at that time of night. But Msimanga was unfazed by the pleas. He told the Pretoria News that while he felt sorry for the women, the law was the law. “The worst driving stereotypes have long been along the lines of "women are ditzy and men are risky". “But women are taking more risks than they used to on the road, at least when it comes to drinking and driving,” said the mayor. Msimanga and metro police officers stopped numerous drivers as he checked licences, licence discs and alcohol consumption. Numerous vehicles that were not roadworthy or had expired licence discs for more than a year were impounded. In a surprise and bizarre turn of events, a motorist who was asked to step out of the car and blow into a breathalyser fled with the equipment still in his mouth, leaving his car and wife at the roadblock. Police gave chase but couldn't catch him. His car was subsequently impounded. An illegal gambling corner on Struben Street was also shut down by the mayor, and was done so with force because the gamblers fought back. More arrests were made and fines issued in Centurion at John Vorster Drive, which also saw an alarming number of women who had allegedly violated the law. This varied from alleged drunken driving to other vehicle-related violations. Addiction expert Dr Steve Levounis said the spike in the number of women apprehended for drunk driving might be because of more equality in the workplace. “As more women have jobs, and start having jobs that resemble the jobs men have, and as more women start having the same entertainment patterns as men do, along with that comes more drunk driving,” he pointed out. Levounis said another possible contributor to the spike was stress, as more women were trying to balance the demands of work and family. Random roadblocks were expected to take place all over the city, Msimanga warned. “In the months leading to the December festive season we normally see a rise in alcohol consumption and dangerous behaviour on the road. We want to curb that,” he said. Meanwhile, Tshwane has partnered with the University of Pretoria to tackle the scourge of drug abuse around the city. Msimanga said measures to address drug abuse had resulted in the city engaging with the university as a partner in the struggle against substance abuse. “The UP has conceptualised a community-oriented primary care project, which spans two years. “The agreement between the city and the UP was finalised in June 2016 and funds were made available in August,” said Msimanga.