He launched the first unit in Hatfield yesterday, which would see some of the City’s law enforcement officers patrolling the streets of the area on bicycles. This, Msimanga said, was in addition to other existing transport modes the city was already using to fight crime. He was with MMC for Community Safety Derrick Kissoonduth and acting chief of Metro Police Jenny Malan, who all agreed that the unit would assist in the fight against crime. It was established within the Tshwane Metro Police Department with 20 bicycles for a start. These would be divided into shifts to patrol Hatfield. “I want the police's presence to be felt in communities. “We need to fight crime and ensure people feel safe and secure. If residents feel safe in their communities, criminals will feel threatened and will not want to be around, which is what we are aiming for. And if we are able to get that right, we will have a safe and secure city,” he said. The unit was established within the Tshwane Metro Police Department and was launched to assist in the fight against crime in the Hatfield area, in addition to other existing transport modes that the city already used to fight crime. Msimanga said the launch was in response to his vision to ensure the city became a safe and secure place. He said the advantage of having a safe city was that it easily attracted investors. “One of the main ways to attract economic activity to the city is for investors to have a sense of safety. Investors want to feel safe; they want to see that the place is clean and they want to know that once they are in the city not only do they feel safe, but also their investment is safe,” he said. “We have a declining number of students who want to come and stay in certain areas because they don’t feel safe, and this unit is a way of working around that issue,” Msimanga said. He was proud and excited about the new unit as it was the beginning of greater things for the whole city, he said. He told those in the unit that his dream for a safe city was now on their shoulders. “This is a great day for the Hatfield community and it is made possible by a team of 22 metro police members who volunteered to carry out this job wholeheartedly,” said Lucas Luckhoff, Hatfield City Improvement District chief executive. The officers had already attended a two-week bicycle training course and had been at work since September 1. One of the officers, Mosima Hopane, 28, said she was excited to be part of a team that would assist in reducing crime in the city. “The bicycle is also a great method to fight crime because we will keep fit, and the more fit the metro cop is the more productive we become,” she said. The unit will work with CCTV cameras to be installed in due course in a move expected to reduce the high number of thefts and robberies in the area. At the launch were also representatives from nearby businesses, who committed to work with the metro police officers to combat the crime that are prevalent in the area.