In terms of the constitution, municipalities are obliged to encourage the involvement of communities and community organisations in the work and progress made by local government. Giving effect to the above, Msimanga and his team visited Rethabiseng and Ekangala in Region 7 and Soshanguve in Region 1 where they engaged members of the community on progress in their areas and thus advancing a collective vision for the benefit of the communities. “The City is developing an economic future that is prosperous and inclusive. “To do this we have put in place a budget that is financially viable and that speaks directly to our IDP. "Our budget is fully funded and balanced and is confirmation that we have heard the people of the capital city and we are putting our money where our mouth is,” said Msimanga. Residents who gathered at Father Smangaliso Mkhatshwa Hall in Soshanguve used the opportunity to engage heart-to-heart with the Msimanga administration. Residents raised concerns about two new informal settlements that need rudimentary services. It was also raised that 92 RDP houses had been invaded in Block JJ and HH. Responding to the concerns, Msimanga said the City would provide the rudimentary services and schedule a shack-marking process for the two informal settlements. A common infrastructure challenge raised was the tarring of roads and insufficient stormwater drainage systems. The community experience discontent with dust, flooding and movement challenges when it rained. To fix this Msimanga indicated that the City had put aside R2.2million in the current financial year to maintain the gravel roads and fix the drainage system in these areas. With regards to water and meter leaks complaints and backlogs, Msimanga said “the region has assigned two teams per ward to assist with the reduction of the backlogs. The output of each team is 10 meters in a day”. He further explained that approximately 8000 people in Ekangala and Rethabiseng who are in need of housing opportunities and registered were undergoing a beneficiary verification process. “There are about 400 vacant serviced stands in Ekangala (Camel Park) which only need a new layout plan, roads and electricity infrastructure so that they can be allocated,” said Msimanga. The City approved River Walk township development which would be used to establish four townships for residential, recreational and business activity, he said. Msimanga explained that the development of a mall in Ekangala was delayed by a land rights issue which would be resolved upon the finalisation of the land transfer.