Last Wednesday, the cast refused to perform, citing payment delays. The State Theatre then had to cancel Wednesday’s and Thursday’s performances. The State Theatre said the issue stemmed from a payment dispute between the Department of Arts and Culture and Committed Artists, a South African theatre company. The department had not paid what was owed to the production. However, the department has denied this. “There were no delays on the part of the department with regard to making this final payment,” said spokesperson Zimasa Velaphi. She said the department was approached by Committed Artists last year with a proposal to stage the musical with a total value of R25million. “The department reviewed the proposal in the context of available funds and the viability of the project and made a grant of R5m towards the production, encompassing R4.5m for the production and a standard 10% administration and management fee,” Velaphi said. She said according to the contract, the tranche structures allowed for a payment of 60% of the grant on signing of the contract, 20% on receipt of an interim progress and expenditure report documenting the utilisation of the funds. The first payment was made in June 2016 and the second last month. “As such by March 2017 the production had received R4m (80%) of the total grant allocated.” Velaphi said the department had received the necessary documentation to facilitate the final payment and after reviewing it, the final payment was made on April 20. People and schools were turned away from the State Theatre when they went to watch the production on Wednesday, with the theatre cancelling all shows from Thursday to Saturday. A meeting was held between the parties involved and by Friday it was announced that the show would resume on Sunday. The show’s opening night was on March 10 and it will run until May 20. Drama involving productions where cast members not been paid is not new to the State Theatre. After Mandela, The Opera was staged at the State Theatre between November 27 and December 2, 2015, its producer Unathi Mtirara - a grandson of Nelson Mandela’s cousin - was accused of running off with funds paid out by the 
department.