A former leader of the UK Conservative Party inferred that London would be willing to employ force to defend the territory in the event of an inflexible Spain. The disagreement was triggered by a clause in the EU Council’s draft-Brexit guidelines, that require the UK and Spain to agree on the status of Gibraltar. At the weekend, British politicians rejected calls for any sharing of sovereignty of Gibraltar between two countries. One former leader of the Conservative Party likened the situation to the Falklands conflict against Argentina in 1982. In that incident the British military was deployed by the late former UK Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher. “Thirty-five years ago this week, another woman PM sent a task force halfway across the world to defend the freedom of another small group of British people against another Spanish-speaking country,” said Michael Howard, who led the Conservatives between 2003 and 2005. “I’m absolutely certain that our current prime minister would show the same resolve in standing by the people of Gibraltar.” These comments were echoed by the UK’s Defence Minister, Michael Fallon, who said London would go “all the way” to keep Gibraltar in British hands. Gibraltar has been a British territory since 1704, when Spain formally ceded it to the UK in the 1713 Treaty of Utrecht. But, over the years, Spain has contested the UK’s claim to the territory. The small nation was placed on the UN’s list of “non-self-governing territories” in 1946. In what is seemingly an escalation of the agitation between the UK and Spain, Spanish Foreign Minister Alfonso Dastis stated that they would not block Scotland in its bid for independence. Scottish independence is highly controversial in Spain because of the secessionist movement in Catalonia and as a result, Madrid has been an obstacle to Scotland’s post-Brexit desire to join the EU. “Initially, I don’t think we would block it,” Dastis told El Pais. “Having said that, if, in application of its laws, the outcome of that process is a division of the UK, any part of the UK that becomes a state and wants to join the EU will have to apply. And follow the steps that are stipulated,” he said. Dastis refused to talk about Spain’s veto rights when it comes to the Gibraltar elephant in the room, but said he viewed the EU’s stance very positively. “When the UK leaves the EU, the EU partner is Spain, and in the case of Gibraltar the EU is therefore obliged to take the side of Spain,” he said. “I do not think it’s necessary to talk about vetoes.” Dastis said Spain preferred a “soft Brexit” - in which Britain remained linked via a single market and it wanted to have a close relationship with Britain, “as close as possible to what we have now.”