Nicknamed the bulldozer for his tremendous work ethic, he received global acclaim after one of his early acts as the country’s fifth president was to participate in a street-cleaning exercise that endeared him to many, particularly after an image of him riding back to his office on a bicycle was beamed around the world. Magufuli also won plaudits for his commitment to cleansing the country of corruption and extravagant spending by government in the midst of economic problems and ridding the country of thousands of ghost workers drawing vast salaries from the government every month. The Chama Cha Mapinduzi candidate built on his image as a no-nonsense, corruption-fighting man of the people. But, dramatically, an increasingly authoritarian Magufuli’s reputation has been seriously damaged by a series of crackdowns. A few months after assuming office, Magufuli stopped the live broadcast of parliamentary proceedings, stating that the government could no longer afford it. All political rallies are banned until 2020 so the country, according to him, can focus on work. He has been criticised for undermining democracy by curbing political activity and cracking down on dissent. The latest incident is the sacking of a minister for ordering a probe into a presidential ally, as well as the arrest of a popular musician whose lyrics were said to be critical of Magufuli. Information Minister Nape Nnauye has been dismissed after he criticised Dar es Salaam regional commissioner Paul Makonda for leading a group of armed men to Tanzania’s main private broadcaster to demand the airing of a demeaning video aimed at undermining a popular local pastor with whom Makonda has a dispute. “This eventuality clearly depicts President Magufuli, who has been praised for performance in the executive and public service, to be using claims of fighting corruption and incompetence only to victimise those political leaders who are not politically correct,” said analyst Alexander Opicho. Nnauye is not the only individual to feel the wrath of Magufuli and his government. At the end of March, rapper Emmanuel Elibariki, also known as Nay wa Mitego, was arrested for releasing a song deemed to be insulting to the government. The song Wapo trended on social media, especially WhatsApp, and although it does not mention Magufuli by name, it bemoaned a crackdown on dissent. WhatsApp has landed several people before Elibariki in trouble with authorities and the country’s cyber-crime laws.  - ANA-CAJ