Progress on phase one of the project was shown to Transport Minister Joe Maswanganyi yesterday during a progress inspection visit at the construction site in KwaMhlanga. He was shown aspects of the phase, which included the mixing and testing of materials scheduled to be used in construction. Maswanganyi was shown how the different materials, including the various types of sand, concrete and tar were mixed. “Moloto Road is synonymous with death, but it is on its way to becoming the road of grace once the work is complete,” Maswanganyi said. The R4.5billion construction on the 160km stretch of road - counted among the most dangerous in the world - is expected to take up to seven years, and will include both rail and road, improvements to traffic signs, upgraded turn-offs and off-ramps. The revamped Moloto Road will form part of the Moloto Development Corridor, which is expected to attract huge investment in passenger rail to offer commuters safer, faster and more accessible connections between Mpumalanga and Gauteng. The road transverses the three provinces of Mpumalanga, Limpopo and Gauteng and is old, with narrower widths, ageing infrastructure and signs which do not meet the volumes of traffic on it. It carries an average of 200 buses every day, some which are on the road well before dawn, driving in the dark. It is the scene of many crashes and has recorded among the highest deaths per accident in the country, with 30 being killed during an crash  between a bus and a truck near Kwaggafontein in 2013. The upgrades would leave the road with dual lanes and circles at intersections. Construction would be done to improve access on to and off the road and clear markings would be made to provide guidance for vehicles. The development included an investment in passenger rail services to offer commuters a safer, faster and more accessible connection between the provinces. The rail system would form the backbone of both the public transport system and the corridor development process. The rail stations and transfer facilities would become the centre points for nodal developments, the developers said. “All commuters and the non-commuting public will use the rail facilities around the station and the node in general as the basis and position for all commercial and other economic activities along the corridor,” said Maswanganyi. According to initial estimates based on the feasibility study, R20bn would go towards a rapid rail service, R10bn to rail stock and another R1.8bn to improve the condition of the road. A further R2.7bn would go towards upgrading several feeder roads along Moloto, and the whole project, developers said, would benefit more than 12000 people in the labour force. Job seekers who had not registered on the database were yesterday requested to apply through the current processes managed by local municipalities along the development corridor. Maswanganyi said the project formed part of the programmes co-ordinated by the Presidential Infrastructure Co-ordinating Commission, which identified 18 strategic infrastructure projects (SIPs) being undertaken to rejuvenate the economy. “It is part of SIP1, which is designed to unlock the northern mineral belt with the Waterberg as the catalyst. It will include the development of a logistics corridor to connect Gauteng with Mpumalanga and Limpopo,” Maswanganyi said. He said that apart from boosting the Waterberg mineral belt, SIP1 would boost local economies along the Moloto Road - notably the Sekhukhune district in Limpopo and Dr JS Moroka and Thembisile Hani municipalities in the Nkangala district municipality in Mpumalanga. The Mpumalanga and Limpopo Moloto Road sections were incorporated into the SA National Roads Agency (Sanral) network in August 2015. Since the incorporation, Sanral has started with a wide range of interventions in terms of road maintenance which include the repair of dangerous wash-aways in the Moteti area of Limpopo, opening and clearing of stormwater pipes, as well as the repairing of road signs and markings.