Maswanganyi was speaking on Thursday during a media briefing at Tasima’s old offices at Waterfall Park in Midrand. “There’s vandalism of some objects and gadgets here and there, but it won't stop the registering of vehicles,” he said. The new minister said Road Traffic Management Corporation employees worked through the night to ensure the smooth transition from Tasima to the government entity. “From Tuesday evening we have fully taken over the eNatis structure here,” Maswanganyi said. “Since May 2015 we have been ready to administer the eNatis. This has been delayed and denied by the service provider.” The department took Tasima to the Gauteng High Court in Pretoria to force the service provider, which had been handling the eNatis since June 2002, to hand over the reins to RTMC. In a November 2016 Constitutional Court judgment Tasima was ordered to hand over the services and eNatis to the RTMC within 30 days of that order. When it failed to do this, the minister was forced to make an urgent application in the high court. The sheriff had to be present to ensure that Tasima vacated the premises. He even revealed that the department would be saving R30 million a month from taking over the system itself after Tasima had fulfilled its role in the initial agreement to build the infrastructure. Tasima, meanwhile, says it has decided to take the matter further. Tasima spokesman Trevor James said: "Following the high court decision not to grant Tasima leave to appeal the order of the Honourable Justice Neil Tuchten dated 3 April 2017, Tasima immediately petitioned the Supreme Court of Appeal for leave to appeal.” He said the appeal had been transmitted to the RTMC and the Department of Transport on Wednesday morning and lodged with the registrar of the Supreme Court of Appeal. “This means that the operation and effect of the Tuchten order is still suspended in its entirety pending the finalisation of the appeal before the Supreme Court of Appeal.” 'Unlawful' James accused the RTMC of unlawfully storming and seizing control of Tasima property. “This is unlawful self-help, spoliation and constructive contempt by the RTMC and its officials who were also found to be in contempt by the Constitutional Court in November 2016 and on many other occasions by the high court.” He said Tasima was considering its options in this regard. Maswanganyi in response said they would deal with any legal challenges as they came. He assured the nation that the system was secure, although he could not promise there would not be any minor glitches. Pretoria News  Like us on Facebook   Follow us on Twitter  