As a friend of mine said, “before I shut down South Africa for those who want to preserve wealth and privilege, disguised as legitimate concerns I need answers to the following; currency manipulation by the banks, jobs for whites, indifference to poverty, etc, etc.” From the townships our #SaveSA marches look a little elitist and far too pale. “Where were the whites when we were protesting for water and shelter and service delivery?”he asks. My brother, you are right. We were nowhere. Last week Max wrote on Twitter, “Imagine what could have been if we white South Africans were as outraged at apartheid, torture and death squads as we are at Zuma right now”. This is an irritating question to ask the white middle class who have “moved on” from apartheid and now agree that the system was evil. How dare Max question white apathy now that we have all buried the hatchet? It’s irritating, but Max is right. Whites were not outraged at apartheid - they were the beneficiaries of the system. Sure, there were the Helen Suzmans and the Derek Hanekoms and the 
Beyers Naudes, but they were few and far between. Whites baked bread in their neatly trimmed suburban bubbles while the townships burnt and black bodies bore the brunt of an oppressive police state. There was no excuse. Fast forward to 2017 and these same white people continue to enjoy the 
benefits that accrued to them from 
historic injustice. Their children stand on their shoulders and enjoy higher education rates, higher employment rates and higher nutrition levels than those of black 
children. Martin Luther King jr foresaw that, “In the end, we will remember not the words of our enemies, but the silence of our friends.” Black people remember our silence, and it obviously hurts. Sadly, that pain sometimes surfaces as an irrational anger that says, “how dare you protest now?” It becomes a blinding resentment that says “you are willing to fight for your privilege but you are not willing to work or sacrifice for justice!” As exasperating as it might be for many black South Africans, most white South Africans have put apartheid behind them and are looking to the future, with self-interest. They understand that corruption, mismanagement of public funds and crony capitalism will hurt the poor more than it hurts them. These white people are angry with President Jacob Zuma. The corrupt record of many in the ANC and the clouds of abuse of power that have surrounded the president  have shattered their Madiba-inspired honeymoon. To these whites, the Rainbow Nation was more than a promise or a goal, it was a new beginning. To my angry friends, we whites look like ignorant brats fighting over our many toys. Unfortunately, this view is actually misinformed. As difficult as it is for South Africans to leave “race” behind, our country has reached a moment in time where our enemies cannot be neatly identified in terms of race relations. Sure, racism is rife, but our new 
enemies are socio-economic evils such as endemic drug addiction, teen pregnancies, state failure and economic stagnation. To fix these systemic problems requires that the environment be stable, rule-based and fair. This is why democracy matters. So, dear black people, forgive us as we march for privileges that you don’t yet have. We are marching for our institutions, for the rule of law and for your future. Marius Oosthuizen, Member of faculty at the Gordon Institute of Business Science, University of Pretoria. He teaches leadership, strategy and ethics.