The dispatch of the USS Carl Vinson task group “all of a sudden” proves that Washington’s “reckless moves of invading (North Korea)” are serious, announced a spokesman for the North Korean Ministry of Foreign Affairs. “If the United States dares opt for a military action, crying out for ‘preemptive attack’ and ‘removal of the headquarters’, (North Korea) is ready to react to any mode of war desired by the US,” said the spokesman. He said “the prevailing grave situation proves once again that (North Korea) was entirely justified for increasing in every way its military capabilities for self-defence with preemptive attack with a nuclear force as a pivot”. “The Trump administration is foolish enough to deploy strategic striking forces one after another in South Korea, trumpeting about ‘peace by force of arms’, but (North Korea) remains unfazed. “We never beg for peace but we will take the toughest counteraction against the provocateurs in order to defend ourselves... and keep to the road chosen by ourselves.” Yesterday, North Korean state media warned of a nuclear attack on the US at any sign of American aggression. US President Donald Trump, who has urged China to do more to rein in its impoverished neighbour, said in a tweet North Korea was “looking for trouble” and the US would “solve the problem” with or without China’s help. Tension has escalated sharply on the Korean peninsula with talk of military action by the US following its strikes last week against Syria and amid concerns the North may soon conduct a sixth nuclear test. North Korea’s official Rodong Sinmun newspaper said the country was prepared to respond to any aggression by the US. “Our revolutionary strong army is keenly watching every move by enemy elements with our nuclear sight focused on the US invasionary bases not only in South Korea and the Pacific operation theatre but also in the US mainland.” South Korean acting President Hwang Kyo-ahn warned of “greater provocations” by North Korea, and ordered the military to intensify monitoring and  ensure close communication with the US. “It is possible the north may wage greater provocations such as a nuclear test timed with various anniversaries including the Supreme People’s Assembly,” said Hwang. Trump said in a tweet a trade deal between China and the United States would be “far better for them if they solved the North Korea problem”. “If China decides to help, that would be great,” he said. “If not, we will solve the problem without them!” The North convened a Supreme People’s Assembly session yesterday, one of its twice-yearly sessions in which major appointments are announced and national policy goals are formally approved. But South Korean officials took pains to quell talk in social media of an impending security crisis or outbreak of war. “We’d like to ask precaution so as not to get blinded by exaggerated assessment about the security situation on the Korean peninsula,” Defence Ministry spokesman Moon Sang-kyun said. Saturday is the 105th anniversary of the birth of Kim Il Sung, the country’s founding father and grandfather of current ruler, Kim Jong Un. A military parade is expected in the North’s capital, Pyongyang, to mark the day. North Korea often also marks important anniversaries with tests of its nuclear or missile capabilities in breach of UN Security Council resolutions.