As citizens of such a democracy, we can expect a number of rights to be untouchable - especially those laid out in the Bill of Rights. Consider the preamble of the constitution: We therefore, through our freely elected representatives, adopt this constitution as the supreme law of the republic so as to: Heal the divisions of the past and establish a society based on democratic values, social justice and fundamental human rights. Lay the foundations for a democratic and open society in which government is based on the will of the people and every citizen is equally protected by law. Improve the quality of life of all citizens and free the potential of each person. Build a united and democratic South Africa able to take its rightful place as a sovereign state in the family of nations. It is evident that our human rights are entrenched and protected in our constitutional democracy. But what does this mean for the average citizen? This person may be someone who is facing financial difficulty in paying off a home loan. This happened to the Moores in 2009, who fell victim to a fraudulent loan scheme. Once they signed on with the Brusson scheme, they signed over ownership of their home, despite being told that they would retain its ownership. They were one of many families who were taken advantage of by the scheme. This person may be a mineworker who has developed silicosis or silica tuberculosis from working in gold mines for a number of years without adequate protection. Becoming too weak, he is laid off from his job and can no longer support his family. This person may be a prisoner awaiting trial in a correctional centre such as the Pollsmoor Remand Detainee Facility, where overcrowding is at between 165% and 400%. Such figures make it impossible for adequate access to amenities at the facility. This person may be a member of a community facing eviction without any prospect of another place to call home, which happened in Khayelitsha, Cape Town, when a group of occupiers were unlawfully evicted by the city. Where do these people turn? How can we ensure that they reap the full benefits of our hard-fought constitutional democracy? Part of the gains made 23 years ago was the understanding that citizens have a voice; that they can hold power accountable. This is founded on a fundamental cornerstone of our democracy: human rights. Before 1994, human rights were trampled upon and ignored. The promise made with our first vote in democratic South Africa was that this cannot and shall not happen again. This promise drives Legal Aid South Africa’s work every single day. The average citizens listed earlier have all been assisted by Legal Aid SA, ensuring that their dignity and legal rights are recognised and upheld. The Moores took on the Brusson scheme and won, ensuring that many others who had also been fooled could take similar legal action and have their assets restored. This matter assisted another average citizen; a retired schoolteacher who lost her home when she signed for a R100000 loan. Legal Aid SA has set a precedent for how such citizens are to be treated when they approach the courts to fight for their rights, not only against fraudulent loan schemes, but also against major banks that are involved in the transactions. Several hundred mineworkers are now able to take legal action against 32 gold mining companies and hold them accountable for their actions. These mineworkers and their families have long waited for their human rights to be recognised and protected. Awaiting-trial prisoners at Pollsmoor will now be detained in a habitable environment with the dignity they deserve. This matter set a tremendous precedent for other detention facilities in the country. The residents of Khayelitsha who faced eviction were protected from an unlawful eviction and the City of Cape Town is now seeking alternative accommodation to move them to. These are a small sample of stories of the average citizens that have been helped by Legal Aid SA. We assist with legal representation, legal advice and fund a number of legal matters represented by law organisations such as the Legal Resources Centre and Lawyers for Human Rights. Human rights is our work. Daily, we strive to create a South Africa in which the rights and responsibilities enshrined in the constitution are realised to ensure equality, justice and a better life for all. These average citizens have the same rights as you and I - rights to equality, human dignity, housing, access to courts; fundamental human rights. These do not only apply to people of a certain class or income bracket; they are universal. This was the promise of our democracy and we will continue to make this a reality. Visit Legal Aid SA for professional legal help and advice, at no cost, or call the Legal Aid Advice Line at 0800110110. You can now send Legal Aid SA  a ‘Please Call Me’ at 0798357179 for a call back to receive professional legal advice. Legal Aid South Africa is committed to advancing human rights and enabling justice for all. Botes is the Media Content Development Specialist at Legal Aid SA