The peacekeeping mission, known by its French acronym Monusco, said the violence continued to result in “serious human rights violations”. Mass graves had been discovered and militias continued to forcibly recruit civilians, including children. The news of the mounting crisis came as significant reductions in UN peacekeeping missions in some of the world’s most dangerous places loomed yesterday at a meeting of the world body’s Security Council called by the US. American President Donald Trump’s administration is seeking to reduce its peacekeeping costs as part of proposed deep budget cuts in its foreign aid. Last week, the Security Council decided to axe 500 troops from the UN peacekeeping mission in the Congo and improve its operations to focus on protecting civilians and enabling presidential elections this year - key steps urged by Trump’s administration. “The violence in the Kasais has already claimed the lives of possibly more than 400 civilians as well as a significant number of members of the security forces. It must stop,” said Maman Sidikou, the special representative of the secretary-
general in the country and the head of Monusco. Sidikou stressed that there was no military solution to the violence, and encouraged the government to intensify its efforts to find political solutions. “At this point, intensifying the military response will only exacerbate the violence and further place civilian populations in danger,” he warned. Monusco noted that the violence last month spread to Luebo, where violence has affected symbols of the government and recently released prisoners, as well as to Luiza and other regions where there are growing threats against churches. The mission also cautioned the military against reported civilian casualties, allegations of human rights violations and arbitrary arrests, including of minors. In late March, the UN and regional partner organisations expressed deep concern about the situation in the Kasai region, where at least two UN experts disappeared two weeks ago and dozens of police officers were reportedly found dead. Monusco is the biggest and costliest UN peacekeeping mission, with a budget of $1.2 billion (R16.4billion) and about 22400 people. Last week, US Ambassador Nikki Haley told the council she was “very proud” that all members had voted to cut the troop ceiling and make the mission stronger and more effective. The UN, the AU, the EU and the International Organisation of La Francophonie warned that the level of violence and reported human rights violations necessitate “an urgent response from the country’s political leaders”.