I respect any man or woman who wakes up next to a partner who speaks a different language to them, who comes from a completely different background and has completely different struggles of growing up, all in the name of interculturalism and diversity. Intercultural relationships have very interesting dynamics. Many times, people like myself who aren’t for such relations are mistaken for being racist or being anti the “rainbow” nation dream. But I beg to differ; I do not think I am less diverse if I choose to date or marry within the Sotho tribe. I do not think I am less intercultural because I choose to converse more in the Sotho languages. It is simply called preference. But imagine being raised speaking the Sepedi language at home all your life, and you find love or love finds you in Ebayi (the Eastern Cape), where neither of you can speak nor comprehend the other’s home language, and you have to communicate in English the whole day. Sigh! It is draining to me. This is why I always wonder: How do these intercultural couples do it? What is the recipe? I cannot stomach speaking English the whole day. I lighten up when I meet a person of colour in the corridors at a place of work, or any gathering that has the rainbow nation under one roof. Furthermore, our cultures and traditions vary so much. We are becoming a society that has less regard for maintaining group identities. I think that belonging to a global world has caused us to undermine our diversity in cultures and traditions a lot. It is wrong and worrisome. I believe that we should preserve our languages, our religions and traditions. The intercultural marriages have produced a lot of monolingual children who are adults today. Many black middle-class parents to Millennials have little or no respect for the preservation of their languages and culture. A child who can speak English and not any other language is good enough. So very often in the working world, at seminars, youth gatherings and so on, I meet young black people my age. You try to strike up a conversation in one of the most common indigenous languages, in Mzansi, IsiZulu and they don’t understand a single word. You ask if they speak any vernacular, and the answer is a shameful and disturbing NO! Most often, the answer to why you cannot speak any vernacular when you are black is: “I really don’t understand why my parents who are both black and speak their home languages fluently never taught me any vernacular. I really wish they could have realised that their choice to speak only English with me would affect me in the future. I cannot speak or write any vernac.” Such is the sad reality of many black children, who are the result of the interculturalism we promote. As I highlighted in my previous column, English is the language that runs the world; but it should never make us neglect our indigenous languages. It is a shame, a disgrace and an embarrassment for a black child to fail to construct a single sentence in any vernacular language when raised by black parents who speak their home languages perfectly. Our diversity should not steal from our beauty of diversity, in turning us into a monolingual country. English is not everything. This also goes for workplaces or places of business. I would speak any of the indigenous languages the whole day and spice them with a bit of English, if I could. However, when I am in the company of people who don’t understand my Sepedi, Setswana and Sesetho, I switch to English to accommodate them. There is more to it than meets the eye. My worst experiences in my very old life were with many Afrikaans, Xhosa and TshiVenda speakers. Mind you, not all of them are like that. Every time a conversation is sparked and it also involves you, they address everyone in their “taal” and I always feel left out, disrespected. I find it very rude, because this will happen even after you have alerted them to the fact that your understanding of their language is downgraded. They will keep on speaking their language. As the first Indigenous President of Bolivia, Evo Morales, puts it: “We are going forward with the idea of a multicultural, a multinational state, trying to live in unity, at the same time respecting our diversity... But we need to all come together so we can live united.” So, we can come together to live united in our diversity and preserved religions, cultures and traditions. If multiculturalism means growing future generations that will only speak in English and have little or no regard for their roots (languages, cultures and traditions), then I am not for it. Kabelo Chabalala is the founder of the Young Men Movement. Twitter, @KabeloJay; E-mail, kabelo03chabalala@gmail.com; Facebook, Kabelo Chabalala