The horror accident saw 20 people, 18 of them schoolchildren, perish on the Groblersdal Road, just after Bronkhorstspruit, on the border between Mpumalanga and Gauteng, on Friday afternoon. The minibus caught fire, trapping most of its passengers. Most of the dead were pupils using the minibus to ferry them from their homes to schools in a nearby village. Tshwane Emergency Services spokesman Johan Pieterse said the minibus was a 22-seater, but reports from the scene said 29 people, including the driver, were travelling in it. Steve Mabona, Gauteng Department of Education spokesperson, confirmed the overload claims. However, he said further investigations were under way. In addition to the 18 pupils, two adults, including the driver of the minibus, were killed. Mabona said pupils involved in the accident were from Refano primary and Sokhulumi secondary schools in the area. According to witnesses, the minibus caused the collision as the driver underestimated the speed of the truck and turned in front of it. “It is alleged that the minibus driver wanted to make a turn into the neighbouring village and turned in front of the truck, underestimating its speed,” Mabona said. Both Pieterse and Mabona said seven pupils survived the accident, with two being critically injured, while the other five were in a serious condition. Those who perished, including the driver, were burnt beyond recognition. Some of the more seriously hurt victims were taken to hospitals in Pretoria, while those with minor injuries were recovering at a Bronkhortspruit hospital. Mabona said the survivors were rescued by people in a vehicle which drove behind the minibus before it caught fire. “The people who drove behind the minibus managed to save seven learners, but after the minibus caught fire, everyone still inside burnt to ashes,” he said. Pieterse further confirmed that the truck driver also survived and was rushed to a nearby hospital by emergency services, accompanied by members of the SAPS. He said the accompaniment by SAPS was to protect the truck driver from possible attacks from angry community members. He said counselling for parents and survivors was to be offered as soon as families were identified. Within hours of the accident, scores of villagers had started an impromptu prayer session at the scene of the accident, singing and consoling families and one another. Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi and other officials from the area were to inform families of the deceased of the tragedy. President Jacob Zuma expressed shock and sadness after the crash. “This is a sad and painful tragedy, taking place just when the country is coming to terms with a number of lives that have been lost during the Easter weekend. On behalf of government and all South Africans we extend our heartfelt condolences to families of the learners, relatives and friends. May their souls rest in peace,” Zuma said.“We further call on law enforcement authorities to swiftly investigate the causes of this horrifying accident that has claimed so much young lives. We also call on all road users in the country to be more vigilant and adhere to the road rules and take safety precautions seriously to avoid unnecessary loss of life.”Zuma wished all those who were injured, a speedy recovery. Pretoria News and ANA