Islamic State claimed responsibility for the attacks through the group’s news agency Amaq. The blasts come a week before Coptic Easter and in the same month that Pope Francis is set to visit Egypt. The first bombing, in Tanta, a Nile Delta city less than 100km outside Cairo, killed at least 25 and injured at least 78, Egypt’s ministry of health said. The second, carried out just a few hours later by a suicide bomber in Alexandria, hit the historic seat of the Coptic Pope, killing 11, including three police officers, and injuring 35, the ministry added. Pope Tawadros, who had attended mass at Saint Mark’s Cathedral, was still in the building at the time of the explosion but was not harmed, the ministry of interior said. The bombings come as Islamic State’s branch in Egypt appears to be stepping up attacks and threats against Christians. In February, Christian families and students fled Egypt’s North Sinai province after a spate of targeted killings. Those attacks came after one of the deadliest on Egypt’s Christian minority, when a suicide bomber hit its largest Coptic cathedral, killing at least 25. Islamic State claimed responsibility for the attack. Thousands gathered outside the church in Tanta shortly after the blast, some wearing black, crying, and describing a scene of carnage. “There was blood all over the floor and body parts scattered,” said a Christian woman who was inside the church. “There was a huge explosion in the hall. Fire and smoke filled the room and the injuries were extremely severe,” another Christian woman, Vivian Fareeg, said. President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi and Prime Minister Sherif Ismail were set to visit the Tanta site yesterday and Sisi has ordered an emergency national defence council meeting, state news reported. A shift in Islamic State’s tactics, which has waged a low-level conflict for years in the Sinai peninsula against soldiers and police, to targeting Christian civilians and broadening its reach into Egypt’s mainland is a potential turning point in a country trying to prevent a provincial insurgency from spiralling into wider sectarian bloodshed. Egypt’s Christian community has felt increasingly insecure since Islamic State spread through Iraq and Syria in 2014, ruthlessly targeting religious minorities. In 2015, 21 Egyptian Christians working in Libya were killed by Islamic State. “Of course we feel targeted there was a bomb here about a week ago but it was dismantled. There’s no security,” said another Christian woman in Tanta referring to an attack earlier this month near a police training centre that killed one policeman and injured 15. Copts face regular attacks by Muslim neighbours, who burn their homes and churches in poor rural areas, usually in anger over an inter-faith romance or the construction of a church. Pope Francis condemned the blast in Tanta and said at a Palm Sunday Mass that the world was suffering from wars, terrorism and “interests that are armed and ready to strike”. While the pope, who is due to visit Egypt on April 28-29, was celebrating the Mass for tens of thousands of people, the Vatican received word of the blast in Tanta. “I pray for the dead and the victims. May the Lord convert the hearts of people who sow terror, violence and death and even the hearts of those who produce and traffic in weapons,” he said. There have been deep security concerns over the Pope’s Egypt trip. Palm Sunday, the start of Holy Week which culminates on Easter Sunday, commemorates the day Christians believe Jesus entered Jerusalem and was welcomed as the Messiah, only to be crucified five days later. Francis, marking the fifth Easter season of his pontificate, blessed palm and olive branches at St Peter’s Square before saying Mass. Previous popes held the service either at the Vatican or a Rome basilica but Francis changed the tradition to stress the importance of going to the poor, the sick and the imprisoned. He has drawn ultra-traditionalist ire for including Muslims and women in a service previously limited to Catholic men.