Pretoria  - ANC councillors forced the Tshwane council sitting to degenerate into chaos on Thursday morning before the mayor Solly Msimanga could take to the podium to deliver the State of the Capital address (Soca). Councillors chanted the pro-Solomon Mahlangu songs, saying they were honouring the late struggle hero Solomon Mahlangu. Speaker of council Katlego Mathebe was forced to adjourn the sitting for 30 minutes due to ANC councillors, who defiantly disobeyed her orders to take their seats and keep quiet. They said they protested against Soca because the event coincided with the commemoration of Mahlangu, who was hanged by the apartheid police on April 6 1979. Party caucas leader Mapiti Matsena had told the Pretoria News prior to the occasion that ANC councillors were likely to boycott the event or stage a dramatic walkout. Matsena accused the DA-led administration of not having respect for Mahlangu.    Symbolising the hanging of the late struggle hero Solomon Mahlangu, ANC councillor Joel Masilela walked bare-footed, in a pair shorts and T-shirt with a rope tied around his neck. Two party members walked by his side, pretending to be the apartheid police who took him to the gallows. Msimanga, who later on entered the council sitting, was booed and jeered by the singing councillors. His VIP drivers, who double as bodyguards, were however able to keep the singing councillors at bay.   ANC councillor Lesego Makhubela stood up against the order of the speaker Katlego Mathebe to remind councillors that the day for Mahlangu's commemoration also marked the day on which Jan van Riebeeck landed in South Africa. He said:"It is no accident that the Botha-Vorster fascist regime chose April 6 for this heinous crime against our people and the rest of humanity. On April 6 1652, three-hundred years ago, Jan van Riebeeck landed at the Cape of Good Hope, heralding the beginning of the dark era of colonial subjugation and the plunder in South and Southern Africa." Matsena pleaded with Mathebe to allow the council to have a moment of silence in honour of Mahlangu.   Mathebe agreed but after the moment of silence, Makhubela said the ANC would not allow the sitting to continue. He said councillors would use the flowers, and some of the decorations to commemorate Mahlangu and would also ask Father Smangaliso Mkhatshwa to lecture them on the life of Mahlangu. To that end, Mathebe called for a 30 minute adjournment, asking the protocol officials to lead special guests to their respective places. Other party councillors were also told to vacate the council chamber.  rapula.moatshe@inl.co.za 