Many of the starving infants are from Mosul, where the war between Islamic State (IS) militants and Iraqi forces is taking a heavy toll on several hundred thousand civilians trapped inside the city. A new, specialist ward was opened recently to deal with the growing number of children from Mosul showing signs of malnutrition as the conflict grinds on- most of them less than 6 months old. That means they were born around the time Iraqi forces severed the last major IS supply route from Mosul to Syria, besieging the militants inside the city, but also creating acute shortages of food. “Normally nutritional crises are much more common in Africa and not in this kind of country,” said paediatrician Rosanna Meneghetti at the hospital, which is run by aid group Medécins Sans Frontières (MSF) in Qayyara, about 60km south of Mosul. “We did not anticipate this.” So far, the number of cases recorded is below the level considered critical but it highlights the hardship faced by civilians who are effectively being held hostage by IS. Iraqi forces, backed by a US-led coalition, have retaken most of the city but are struggling to dislodge the militants from several districts in the west, including the Old City. Residents who have managed to escape say there is almost nothing to eat but flour mixed with water and boiled wheat grain. What little food remains is too expensive for most residents to afford, or kept for IS members and their supporters. In the ward, a team of doctors monitors the babies’ progress in grams, feeding them a special peanut-based paste that will gradually accustom them to eating and increase their weight. On one bed lies a 6-month-old boy weighing 2.4kg - less than half the median weight for an infant of that age. The diminutive patients are also treated for other diseases associated with malnutrition, which weakens the immune system, making them even more vulnerable. “It’s a new thing in Iraq,” said MSF project co-ordinator Isabelle Legall. “Most of the (Iraqi) doctors have never seen it (malnutrition).” Part of the problem, Legall said, is a lack of tradition of breast-feeding among Iraqi mothers, who usually raise their babies on formula milk, which is now almost impossible to come by in Mosul. Even if they want to breastfeed, many mothers find it difficult due to the physical and emotional strain of living in a war zone: “The mother is very stressed and can’t find much food herself so cannot produce so much milk,” Meneghetti said. One of the mothers from Mosul told the doctors she had no option but to feed her baby sugar dissolved in water, yoghurt, or a mixture of flour and water. “All of this is because of Daesh (IS),” said another mother, keeping vigil over her emaciated baby. Some of the babies come from villages that were retaken from IS months ago, pointing to a wider trend of food insecurity.