 London - Do you love social media? If so, as a social media marketer you could make it your career. Lucy Francis, 24, is brand and social media manager at traditional cheesemaker Wyke Farms, in Bruton, Somerset. She says: ‘I manage the running and strategic planning of Wyke Farms’ social media channels. The ability to influence the success of an organisation through creative social media is exciting. ‘If you can engage and influence shoppers by giving a brand personality, you then get to see how fast it can move.’ Lucy gained a retail management and marketing degree, and her course included a placement at Wyke Farms, which led to a job. ‘Social media marketing requires creative flair, underpinned by strong marketing principles. ‘Being the voice and personality of Wyke Farms means I communicate direct with our audience, and I developed the strategy that made us, the business, more engaged with social audiences in our sector.’ Read also: LISTEN: Social media driving American insane Offering advice for others wanting to get into social media marketing, she says: ‘Before applying, research each employer or brand you want to engage with. ‘You must be creative, open-minded and versatile. A degree is not essential and you should know what is trending and streaming on social media channels.’ Jennifer Gray, the marketing director at Wyke Farms, confirms a degree is not vital. ‘We look for candidates with fresh, young thinking, the abilities to work fast, relate to our strategic approach and empathise with the consumer, whatever their age and demographic. ‘Candidates must also be ahead of the next trend, and as social media moves fast, it’s not a job for nine-to-fivers’, she says. Evidence of your skills, from apprenticeships, internships or your own social media, helps. Amanda Fone, chief executive of F1 Recruitment, which handles social media marketing jobs, says: ‘Social media marketing is exploding and career paths are still evolving. Increasingly, companies are hiring dedicated in-house social media managers rather than outsourcing it to communications departments or agencies.’ In companies, salaries start at around £25 000 for juniors, but can reach £60 000-plus, and there are also jobs in agencies. DAILY MAIL