After weeks of negative headlines and record-low approval ratings, Trump cut through the gloom with the roar of 59 Tomahawk cruise missiles launched at a Syrian airfield in the early hours of Friday. The mainstream cable media that Trump has so roundly criticised ran fawning reports, hailing his decisiveness amid footage of the missiles blasting off into the Mediterranean night. Pundits applauded the symbolism of the strike against Assad, whose regime has for years killed its citizens with apparent impunity. Others suggested the act would send a “message” both to Russian President Vladimir Putin, who has shielded the regime from chemical weapons accusations several times, as well as Chinese President Xi Jinping, who was dining with Trump in Florida at the time. “The subtext was unmistakable: Get serious about North Korea; our recent threats were not idle,” declared the neo-conservative magazine The American Interest. “Don Corleone himself couldn’t have set a better table.” “We have in just a few days reasserted statesmanship in a way that has been lacking for almost a decade,” boasted Trump adviser Sebastian Gorka on Fox News at the weekend. “Diplomacy, words, treaties, they mean nothing. If there isn’t force to back it up.” Gorka’s bluster will be put to the test in the coming weeks and months, and the initial signs aren’t promising. If Assad got the “message,” he’s trying his best to show he doesn’t care. Syrian warplanes resumed bombing rebel targets within 24 hours of the American strike, launching sorties from the same airfield the US had hit. “The American strikes did nothing for us. They can still commit massacres at any time,” said a resident from Khan Sheikhoun, the Syrian town struck by chemical weapons last week. “No one here can sleep properly; people are really afraid.” Entering a war with a righteous cause is a way for leaders to rally flagging support for their rule. But Trump’s priority has always allegedly been defeating the Islamic State, not removing Assad, whom Trump defended on the campaign trail as a terror-fighting Arab strongman. And keeping to that stance may be challenging. American allies and opponents of the Syrian regime are now urging the US to go further in the fight against Assad. But administration officials seemed to disagree on the path ahead at the weekend. “We have to go and make sure that we actually see a leader who will protect his people,” said Nikki Haley, Trump’s envoy to the UN, during a Sunday appearance on CNN. “And clearly, Assad is not that person.” But Secretary of State, Rex Tillerson, scheduled for what must now be an awkward trip to Moscow this week, toed a different line. He kept regime change firmly on the back burner, stating on CBS that the US goal is to “navigate a political outcome in which the Syrian people in fact will determine Bashar al-Assad’s fate and his
 legitimacy”.