However, there is one more assignment abroad that they will need to fulfil and a win is non-negotiable. If the Bulls don’t beat the Sunwolves, who are the only team they’ve been able to beat this season, in Tokyo tomorrow morning then any hope of them making it to the play-offs will evaporate as quickly as they have faded in the last two matches against the Chiefs and Blues. Somehow Bulls coach Nollis Marais remains optimistic that his team can turn the season around. But more importantly, Marais believes that his team made great strides in their loss against the Chiefs in Hamilton last weekend and they can build on that performance, which lasted an hour, and pull off their second win against the Sunwolves. “The guys know that they must win every game. That is unfortunately the situation we find ourselves but that is how Super Rugby is. This is an important game for us. If you see how the team came out against the Chiefs last weekend, I think they realised where they are and what they need to do and fix and they played very well. But unfortunately after 67 minutes we let two tries slip and unfortunately fell out of that match. We were very competitive and at one stage I thought we would pull off a win in New Zealand. But the guys believe in themselves and are looking forward to the match and they know it is an important game for us. Luckily we are returning home and playing the next seven games at home,” said Marais from Tokyo yesterday. Marais’ plans for that elusive win has been disrupted a bit by injuries that have hit his team. This time around he will have to do without vice-captain and Springbok flyhalf Handre Pollard  and Springbok lock Lood de Jager who have to be rested as per agreement with the South African Rugby Union. Furthermore Marais has played some musical chairs with his side bringing back Warrick Gelant at fullback in place of Jesse Kriel while Tian Schoeman is handed his first start of the season in place of Pollard. The changes amongst the forwards have been minimal with Hanro Liebenberg returning at No 8 after missing out last week due to injury and Jannes Kirsten will make his first start of the campaign at blindside flank, Jason Jenkins will partner RG Snyman in the second row while Lizo Gqoboka is in the normal rotational switch with Pierre Schoeman at loosehead prop. Marais has urged his team to play to their strengths and play until the final whistle. “We have to play to our strengths, settle down, make sure we control the game and not give them too much possession. We have worked hard and put a lot of things in place this week. The guys know you can’t play for 60 minutes and then give the opposition possession to attack. We need to play for 80 minutes and as much as we put a lot of things in place, only the result will show that,” Marais said. Captain Adriaan Strauss is aware of the danger that the Sunwolves will pose, especially playing in front of their home crowd. “I am excited to have the new guys in the team as they bring a new energy to the party and will be keen to show what they are capable of. This will be another new venue for us but at least we know what to expect from the Sunwolves. They will play with passion and pace, something we will need to match if we want to return home with a win." Bulls STARTING XV: Warrick Gelant, Travis Ismaiel, Jan Serfontein, Burger Odendaal, Jamba Ulengo, Tian Schoeman, Rudy Paige, Hanro Liebenberg, Jannes Kirsten, Nic de Jager, RG Snyman, Jason Jenkins, Trevor Nyakane, Adriaan Strauss (captain), Lizo Gqoboko; Replacements: Edgar Marutlulle, Pierre Schoeman, Martin Dreyer, Jaco Visagie/HendréStassen, Jacques Potgieter, Ivan van Zyl, Francois Brummer, Franco Naude