In fact, the declaration in 2016 of global eradication of the second human viral strain, wild poliovirus serotype 2, slipped by unnoticed, overshadowed by more newsworthy viruses such as Ebola and Zika. While remaining reservoirs of wild poliovirus type 1 frustrate the completion of the “polio end game” - the global countdown to eradication (five cases of wild polio virus for 2017 to date) is not something many of us tweet about daily, nor discuss at the dinner table. Polio is targeted to be the second human disease ever eradicated, after smallpox, declared eradicated in 1979. While no one in Geneva has appetite to announce the next virus for eradication efforts until all three strains of polio are well and truly gone, the likely front-runner is measles. This is a leading global killer of children under 5 years old. It is a viral illness spread through saliva droplets and through the air. Symptoms include fever, rash, flu-like illness and eye infection (conjunctivitis). Complications can include blindness, brain infection (encephalitis) or death. One person with measles can spread the disease to 18 others if they are non-immune. Young children are most at risk from complications. Disease elimination implies interruption of a disease within a geographic area. Elimination from all countries would eventually allow global eradication. The measles elimination target set by the African region is 2020 - highly ambitious for a region beset annually by large outbreaks. It’s prudent to put in context the historical numbers of deaths in the region. The World Health Organisation estimates that before the 1960s, measles caused more than 2million deaths globally per year. In certain African societies, until recent decades, infant deaths from measles were so common it was customary for parents not to name their newborn babies until measles season had passed. In South Africa, a large outbreak in 2009-11 comprised more than 18000 cases and resulted in multiple deaths. While vaccine acceptance is high in South Africa, there is burgeoning vaccine hesitancy in certain sectors, usually among affluent, internet-savvy or religious groups. Through social media, parents are bombarded with mixed messages about parenting in general, and vaccination in particular. What websites often fail to explain, however, is that vaccines work in two ways. Parents are largely informed concerning the first way - vaccines prevent disease and associated complications in the vaccinated individual. Much less discussed, however, is the second way - that vaccines prevent transmission, or spread, of the disease. If a parent chooses not to vaccinate, their child might develop a mild case of measles and recover fully. Their child may, however, spread the disease to a newborn baby, who is too young to receive vaccine. The newborn may suffer severe consequences of disease. The second aspect, preventing transmission, is the reason vaccines are 
the most successful public health intervention. Prevention of one case prevents infinite numbers of subsequent cases, compounding returns on investment from vaccination programmes - every case prevented allows the circulation of the pathogen to be further constrained, until such time as it is possible to eliminate it from an area completely. Parents are not often informed about the aspects of vaccination that are shaping our modern history. Moms can celebrate the successes brought about by generations of mothers before us - such as the eradication of smallpox, elimination of polio from most of the globe, absence of neonatal tetanus in most societies, and near-elimination of diseases such as diphtheria. These are battles hard won by the foot soldiers marching daily to vaccination clinics, but little heralded or applauded. Measles vaccines are the later vaccines in the schedule, given at 6 months and 1 year of age, and are thus a challenge for moms to remember once they are back at work. A challenge is to maintain public demand for a vaccine as the number of cases of the disease dwindles from memory. While prevalence of a disease is high and complications are part of the collective experience, demand for vaccine is high. One can imagine how high the demand in South Africa would be for a hypothetical new vaccine against HIV, for example. Once the vaccination programme successfully controls the disease, the images of associated death and suffering dissolve from the collective memory. Most moms in South Africa have not known friends whose children died of measles, while this was common in our grandparents’ generation. During African Vaccination week, we celebrate the spirit of global co-operation towards the common purpose of stopping measles transmission and preventable measles deaths, in South Africa and beyond. Dr Melinda Suchard is head of the Centre for Vaccines and Immunology at the National Institute for Communicable Diseases