The visit, Mattis’s first as Secretary of Defense, comes just days after a devastating Taliban attack on one of Afghanistan’s largest and most secure bases killed at least 140 soldiers - leading to yesterday's resignation by the country’s army chief and defence minister. The brazen attack was the largest ever by the Taliban on a military base and involved gunmen dressed in army uniforms that penetrated the base and then gunned down unarmed service men and set off suicide vests. Mattis’s visit also came as suspected Taliban insurgents yesterday attacked a US-operated base in Afghanistan’s eastern province of Khost. The attackers had detonated a car bomb at an entrance to Camp Chapman, a secretive facility manned by US forces and private military contractors, said Mubarez Mohammad Zadran, a spokesperson for the provincial governor. But he had little immediate information on any damage or casualties. President Ashaf Ghani accepted the resignations of Defence Minister Abdullah Habibi and Army Chief of Staff Qadam Shah Shahim - who were likely to have been scheduled to meet Mattis. The US defence chief will meet the battlefield commanders, as well as General John Nicholson, who leads US forces in Afghanistan. He will also sit down with Afghan leaders, including Ghani. Mattis, who last visited Afghanistan in 2013 when he was a Marine general and leader of Centcom, is wrapping up his six-nation trip through the Middle East and the Horn of Africa. The US has been attempting to end its 16-year involvement in Afghanistan and turn over the fight against the Taliban and the Islamic State (IS) to local forces. Friday’s devastating attack and an IS assault on a Kabul hospital in March that killed at least 50 are throwing into the question the ability of Afghan forces to secure the country without major US support. The US withdrew combat forces in 2014 with the remaining foreign troops acting in an advisory and training role. The Afghan defence forces, largely responsible for waging the war since then, have suffered from desertions, corruption and defections to the other side. There are currently about 8 400 US troops and another 5 000 Nato forces in the country. Nicholson and other US military officials have said that several thousand more are needed to continue training and supporting Afghan forces. Shah Hussain Murtazawi, acting spokesperson for Ghani, said the resignations of the Afghan defence and army chief of staff were because of Friday’s attack. Ghani’s office also announced that he had replaced the commanders of four army corps in response to the attack, and defence officials said as many as eight army personnel had been arrested - heightening suspicions the attackers had inside help. At a news conference yesterday, Habibi and Shahim insisted their resignations were voluntary. In a serious security failure, as many as 10 Taliban fighters, dressed in Afghan army uniforms and driving military vehicles, made their way on to the base and opened fire on soldiers and new recruits eating a meal and leaving a mosque after Friday prayers, according to officials. Multiple Afghan officials said the final death toll was likely to be even higher. A senior US official said, based on intelligence and the types of tactics used, the Taliban-linked Haqqani network likely played a role. “This is very typical Haqqani network tactics, techniques and procedures,” said the official, adding that the US believed it took four to six months to plan the attack.