In an ideal world, Blitzboks coach Neil Powell would sleep easy knowing that his team could put to bed the contest for the Sevens world series title ahead of the Hong Kong and Singapore leg of the series. In fact, Hong Kong and Singapore could be the golden path to their coronation as world champions and that would be with all his crown princes leading from the front in a season where they have been the dominant 
side. However, that ideal only exists in the Blitzboks’ dream world as reality dictates that they will go into the Hong Kong tournament without some of their most influential stars and a greater monkey on their back to shake off having not won the tournament. Powell always knew he was going to have to play most of the season without star players Seabelo Senatla and Kwagga Smith but untimely injuries to Kyle Brown, Justin Geduld and the in-form Rosko Specman have put paid to any idea of ensuring that the Asian leg of the series secures them their second world title. The Blitzboks played themselves into the reckoning to become world champions by winning four of the six tournaments played so far. But they have lost some of that killer instinct and ability to put teams away with the kind of ease they enjoyed earlier in the season without their injured stars. However, Powell still possesses a potent squad with the likes of former World Sevens Player of the Year Werner Kok, in-form forward Chris Dry, Branco du Preez, Cecil 
Afrika, Siviwe Soyizwaphi, Philip Snyman and now-recovered Tim Agaba part of the squad. As inexperienced as some of the squad members - Stedman Gans, Ryan Oosthuizen and Selvyn Davids - may be, Powell takes some comfort that he has worked with the players since last year as part of the academy in Stellenbosch. “I don’t think we had the ideal preparation for Hong Kong but we always say that if we wait for the perfect circumstances and perfect preparations, you are going to wait forever to be successful,” Powell said. “We are going there to make it happen, that’s it. “I’m very happy with the squad, still a lot of quality players there and one or two new guys coming into the system. “The new guys have been part of our system since November so I am happy they have the fundamentals and they know what their roles are in the system.” Over and above having to contend with the unenviable history of never having won in Hong Kong, Powell wants his team to focus on doing well in their pool where they face France, Kenya and Canada ahead of an even trickier quarter-final draw against a pool that features Fiji and New Zealand. “It will be a challenging pool with France, Kenya and Canada and a tough crossover with Fiji and New Zealand so we’ll have to make sure we are up for every game,” Powell said. The weekend’s tournament in Hong Kong will also be Afrika’s 50th in the Green and Gold and there will be added pressure on the side to do well for one of their stalwarts and the man who holds the record for the most points scored for the national team.