The implicated councillors boycotted the campaign in Mamelodi on the grounds that they were not informed beforehand about it. They demanded that city officials to leave Thusong Service Centre, the venue where the campaign was being held, claiming they needed to be informed before an event of that nature happened. Finance MMC Mare-Lise Fourie disputed claims by the councillors that they were unaware of the campaign to educate residents about the importance of settling their unpaid municipal bills. Fourie said the office of the Speaker was briefed on the campaign prior to its launching. She said the information was subsequently communicated to councillors 
electronically. Fourie apologised for the inconvenience caused by the interruption, and assured residents that the city programme of action to collect revenue and to render improved services would continue as planned. On the other hand, ANC councillor Joel Masilela said none of the councillors was opposed to the campaign, but wanted to be informed about it. “The councillors of Mamelodi don’t know of it and the channel of communication to councillors must be done through the Speaker’s office,” he said. Fourie said the investigation would establish if there was reasonable grounds for charges to be formulated against them. According to the code of conduct for councillors, a councillor could not “obstruct or attempt to obstruct the implementation of any decision of the council or a committee by an employee of the council”. Fourie said the revised programme for the customer engagement sessions would be communicated in due course. “Top on the arrears’ list is R4.54 billion which is the highest amount owed by residential customers. The business customers come second with a gross outstanding amount of R2.28bn. “A further liability is attributed to government and inactive customer debts which stand at R824m and R661m, respectively,” said Fourie. She said the city closed the 
previous financial year with a deficit in excess of R2bn on the operating account - a turnaround of R2.146bn compared to a budgeted surplus of R2.5 million.