Diplomats debating a draft Security Council resolution condemning the attack, which a human rights group says killed 72 people, extended their discussions by an hour on Wednesday. The resolution, drafted by France, Britain and the US, calls on Syria to provide UN investigators information about air operations, including the names of commanders of helicopter squadrons, on April 4. The resolution also demands UN access to Syrian air bases. The severity of the attack - videos widely circulating on social media show children struggling to breath and dying - fuelled calls from some Western officials for President Bashar al-Assad to step down, a six-year demand that still appears out of reach. Briefing the Security Council following the reports of alleged chemical weapons use in Khan Shaykhun, southern rural Idlib, Syria, a senior UN official for disarmament affairs said that while many details are not yet fully known, new information was continuing to come in on the incident. “However, if confirmed, this would constitute the single largest chemical weapons attack in Syria since the attack on eastern Ghouta in August 2013,” said Kim Won-soo, the UN High Representative for Disarmament Affairs. “Reports have stated that the attack was carried out through an airstrike on a residential area but the means of delivery of the alleged attack cannot be definitively confirmed at this stage,” he noted. Kim informed the 15-member Council of reports indicating presentation of symptoms after the attack, including respiratory problems, vomiting, fainting and foaming at the mouth, and miosis (pupillary constriction). “This was visible in videos on social media, said to have been taken at the scene of the attack,” he noted. According to the UN World Health Organisation (WHO) at least 70 people have died and hundreds more have been affected in Khan Shaykhun. The WHO noted that: “The likelihood of exposure to a chemical attack is amplified by an apparent lack of external injuries reported in cases showing a rapid onset of similar symptoms, including acute respiratory distress as the main cause of death. “Some cases appear to show additional signs consistent with exposure to organophosphorus chemicals, a category of chemicals that includes nerve agents,” it added. The WHO also noted that emergency rooms and intensive care units in Idlib were overwhelmed and reporting shortages in medicines required to treat injured patients and that many patients had been referred to hospitals in Turkey. “If proven that the regime was behind this, it demonstrates once again the barbarity of Assad and the requirement that he must go,” Britain’s UN ambassador Matthew Rycroft said. “He cannot be the person who unifies Syria after this war.” Russia, which backs Assad’s regime and has vetoed seven previous resolutions critical of Syria, said the current resolution was “categorically unacceptable”. Moscow has blamed the deaths in Tuesday’s attack on rebels, saying in a Defence Ministry statement that the Syrian air force hit an ammunition depot in northern Idlib province where chemical weapons were stored. The April 4 attack also puts the Trump administration in a corner since, if chemicals were used by Assad’s army, it signals Syrian non-compliance with a deal to destroy such weapons, an accord brokered by the Obama administration and Russia after an August 2013 sarin gas attack killed more than 1 000 people in a Damascus suburb.