Though both are out of the Premier League title hunt, they’re still chasing a top-four finish and a place in the Champions League. City currently hold the final qualifying position with United just one point behind in fifth, making the battle at the Etihad Stadium crucial. United have slowly crept up the table despite having to battle injuries and fixture congestion. A 2-0 win at Burnley on Sunday extended their unbeaten run in the league to 23 games and captain Wayne Rooney knows the importance of the derby. “I think it’s a game between two great teams, and it’s a massive game for the city as always,” he said. “There’s a fight for the top four and us and City are firmly in that fight. We know it’s a big game for both teams and we’ll be ready.” City are not only looking over their shoulder at United but are also eyeing Liverpool, who are just two points ahead of them in third pace having played two more games. They’ll try to rebound from Sunday’s 2-1 extra-time loss to Arsenal in the FA Cup semi-finals that guaranteed the first trophyless season of Pep Guardiola’s managing career. Both teams have fitness questions after injuries to key players at the weekend. Already without top scorer Zlatan Ibrahimovic, United could also be missing Paul Pogba, who limped off at Burnley, while City’s Sergio Aguero and David Silva were forced off against Arsenal. Having beaten Tottenham in the FA Cup on Saturday, leaders Chelsea now look to hold off their London rival in the title race. Two losses from four in the league have seen the Blues’ lead at the top trimmed to just four points heading to tonight's game against Southampton. Second-placed Spurs have won seven straight as they visit a rejuvenated Crystal Palace tomorrow. A 2-1 win at Liverpool at the weekend was Palace’s sixth in eight games, which has lifted them seven points clear of the drop zone. “No one would have expected us to get the results we have recently - maybe the odd shock but we’ve had three in just as many weeks - Chelsea away, Arsenal home and Liverpool away,” manager Sam Allardyce said. “We’re in fantastic form at the moment.” Arsenal still have hopes of the top four as they host Leicester City. The Gunners are seventh, six points behind Man City with a game in hand. The final midweek match features two sides on their way out of the top flight. Sunderland are bottom of the table, 12 points from safety, as they visit Middlesbrough, who sit just above them in 19th.