In Moscow, some 8000 to 30000 people reportedly took to the streets and more than 1000 of them were detained by the police. The protests followed a documentary released by the Anti-Corruption Foundation headed by opposition politician Alexei Navalny. The film exposed the property allegedly owned by Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev through trustees and their structures. About 20million people watched the film on the internet. Almost a half of the protesters in Moscow were schoolchildren and first- or second-year university students, thus forming a new group of activists who until then were conspicuously apolitical - young people under the ages 25-30. Protests took place in Moscow again on April 2, although on a smaller scale, with several dozen people detained again. These were the biggest protests in Russia since the end of 2011 and the beginning of 2012 when hundreds of thousands of people marched across the country to express their indignation against vote rigging. Most of them were “angry townsmen,” representatives of the middle class displeased with President Vladimir Putin’s policy. After that mass protests dwindled. The anti-Putin opposition, primarily its liberal part, was suppressed and disorganised by a government crackdown, especially after the reincorporation of Crimea which boosted public support for the authorities. This time, the non-system opposition (there is also system opposition in the parliament, but as a rule it supports the president and the government on key issues) had no relation to the protests. What made them distinct from the previous ones is that none of the opposition leaders and intellectuals who supported them in 2011-12 was seen among the demonstrators. Old-time protesters had either vanished or learnt to co-exist with the system. But new protests can become more radical and uncompromising. They were organised by the only opposition politician who had managed to persevere through stormy times - Alexei Navalny. He is not liked by liberal opponents of the regime because of his outright populist and nationalistic manners. But all give him credit for his energy, courage and unrelenting efforts to attack corruption. Navalny is an idol for young people who do not watch federal television channels, but spend days on end surfing the internet. On March 27, Navalny was detained for 15 days for hooliganism during an unauthorised event. Earlier he had been given a suspended sentence over economic charges, which the opposition considers falsified. A suspended sentence may become a real one if he is charged with an administrative offence one more time. “There are two real politicians in our country: Vladimir Putin and Alexei Navalny,” said political scientist Dmitry Oreshkin. “What is very important for Navalny is that he got response in regions. In other words, he is no longer a solely Moscow politician, but rather a federal-level one. The only way for the Kremlin to deal with this situation is to isolate Navalny.” The question is whether the authorities would want to do that to silence Navalny who received almost 30% of votes in the Moscow mayoral elections in 2013. In fact, this can boost his popularity by turning him into a martyr. Putin, who never makes critical decisions under public pressure, commented on the March 26 rallies only several days later. He said Russia was combating corruption, but it would be wrong to use this issue for election hype. The president recalled that similar protests had led to a coup in Ukraine and the Arab Spring in the Middle East. Putin also described as “politicised” Western politicians’ appeals to the Russian authorities to free the detained protesters. He said the West was criticising Russia while cracking down on its own protests. The “hero” of the latest events, Medvedev, kept silent even longer. It took him more than a week to blame such anti-government rallies and attacks on those who sought to achieve their own political goals. Medvedev dismissed the alleged evidence against him as “nonsense” and said its purpose was to bring people out into the streets. He described Navalny as “a convicted character” who was setting young people up for his own purposes. A public opinion poll conducted by the Levada Centre shows that almost three quarters of respondents (74%) oppose bribing, 25% put up with it, 89% believe that there should not be corruption in the government, and 5% think otherwise. “Corruption is a very explosive issue. It casts shadow not only on Dmitry Medvedev, but also on Vladimir Putin himself. There is more to the corruption scandal than just Alexei Navalny’s probe. His film became consonant with the negative grassroots sentiment. My estimate, which is actually an understatement, is that there have been some 750 or 800 reports about corruption scandals in the last two years,” said Levada Centre director Lev Gudkov. The Kremlin had apparently not expected the anti-corruption campaign to gather so many people. Navalny had taken up a burning issue and turned up the heat to the maximum. Meanwhile, the authorities are making it clear that the fight against corruption remains on the agenda. Just several days ago, one more regional top official was arrested. Udmurtia governor Alexander Solovyov is suspected of having taken 140million rubles in bribes. He is the fourth regional leader who has been arrested on graft charges. Former Minister of Economic Development Alexei Ulyukayev remains under house arrest. Public attention was recently diverted from anti-corruption protests by a subway bomb blast in Russia’s second largest city, St Petersburg. The explosive device, detonated by an Uzbek suicide bomber on April 3, killed 14 and injured more than 40 people. The presidential administration is preparing a nationwide mass anti-terror campaign which is, among other things, a good way to distract young people from thoughts about corruption in the government. Experience shows that the shock from the tragedy will soon wear out, but the problems of corruption in the government and protest among young people will hardly disappear before the upcoming presidential elections slated for 2018. No one has doubts that Putin will run for a new term again. The authorities are facing a real challenge: the political activity of young people who until recently were indifferent to politics.