She tabled a report during a special council meeting at Sammy Marks Council Chamber on Tuesday, seeking permission to allow the Speaker to establish a special protection services to assist her in enforcing the rules and orders of council. The report detailed the hiring of specialised trained council protection services officers to assist in maintaining order during council meetings. The ANC opposed the proposed report, saying it was not budgeted for. The official opposition proposed that the plan be put on hold until July, when a budget would be available. ANC councillor Terence Mashigo warned that going ahead with the plan would be in contravention of the law, suggesting there was no legislative provision for it at local government level. He challenged Mathebe to produce a piece of legislation that empowered her to start the unit and employ people for it. “Let’s warn you that you must take full responsibility of what happens to these people (the bouncers). What you are starting is a bloodbath,” he said. Mashigo was, however, asked to retract the use of the word bloodbath as it instigated violence, which he did. ANC leader Mapiti Matsena said the proposed council protection services confirmed what the DA-led administration did at the State of the Capital Address when “requesting the metro police to remove us”. He warned that the protection services had the potential to trample on the freedom of expression, which “must at all times be respected”. Matsena’s sentiment was backed up by ANC councillor Joel Masilela, who said: “Make sure that your bouncers have funeral cover when they come here.” Councillor Aaron Maluleka accused Mathebe of wanting to strip city manager Moeketsi Mosola of his executive powers by setting up the unit. By setting up the unit, Mathebe would assume powers to employ the “bouncers”, he said. He supported Matsena’s request for the establishment of protection services to be put on hold until July when funds would be available. “Issues of budget are important." "Where are you going to get the money when you are going to implement this thing tomorrow?” Maluleka further warned the DA and EFF councillors not to bully the party with their majority in council. MMC for corporate and shared services Cilliers Brink said: “If this (unruly behaviour) happens in Parliament, the ANC sends the white T-shirts personnel. “If it happens in Ekurhuleni the ANC sent the metro police to beat us. If they want to challenge us let them go to court.” Pretoria News