But what next? What happens when (President Jacob) Zuma leaves/is pushed/jumps/is redeployed? What happens to us, the people? What happens to our struggle to see authentic social and economic justice in our land, for the millions still trapped under the crushing burden of unemployment and poverty? What happens to our once bright future; to the hope of a nation diverse yet united as one; prevailing despite the odds to become a marvel to the world? What happens to the dream of building a great republic worthy of our children? So Zuma goes, what next? Will the replacement of one set of political leaders by another really be enough? Is the move from one regime to another a miraculous panacea that will somehow soothe all of our wounds and cover all of our gaping divides? Don’t we actually need the whole system to change, from the “bottom up” so that the protection of our rights; the inclusion of our marginalised; the security of our vulnerable; the well-being of our frail; the education of our children, the employment of our youth and the prosperity of our communities becomes a lived reality for ALL of our people? The removal of one self-serving autocrat is simply not enough. What is needed is for us, as a people, to once again take hold of our common destiny. But, this will require the courage to step far beyond business as usual and into that very risky space of true “nation-building”. It will necessitate a re-imagining of who we are as South Africans, and what we want to become as a nation. In terms of the next steps, I would propose the following: That through any and all legitimate means necessary, Zuma is removed from office. That a shared governance arrangement, such as a Government of National Unity (GNU), be established. It should be remembered that a GNU, however imperfect and tentative, at least allowed for a space to birth our democracy and may, again, provide a safe platform for our recovery. More substantively, minds far greater than mine (including noted Harvard academic Pippa Norris, and the late veteran South African journalist Allister Sparks) have long argued that shared governance models are best suited for fragmented societies such as ours. That urgent deliberations be entered into on a range of critical issues within this shared governance arrangement, from economic restitution to electoral reform, to rooting out corruption, to the distillation of our common values and the reinvigoration of societal reconciliation. It is vital that leaders from diverse spheres of our society (including labour unions, industry, community and NGOs, academia, spiritual communities and other areas of civil society) be fully included in such deliberations. That these deliberations be captured in a series of clearly-stated political, social and economic reforms. This robust “reform package” would bolster, and where necessary replace, whole components of the National Development Plan (which so desperately needs popular traction). That, before it is comprehensively implemented, the reform package be taken to communities across our country, so that it is genuinely shaped by active citizens and, ultimately, owned by all. Given the large-scale implications of this proposal for our society, it would seem necessary that steps 2-5 be preceded by a national referendum. A national referendum is a wholly unrealised constitutional mechanism that would require executive action supported by an (urgent) act of Parliament. But such a referendum could prove crucial as it will firmly place before the people the option to continue down our current road (to an increasingly uncertain destination) or to boldly choose a different path, such as the one outlined (a risk, to be sure, but one worth taking as it could lead us to a far better future). So, what’s next? Potentially, a miraculous change. Although the proposal outlined above may seem beyond the realms of possibility, it should be remembered that, at one point, defeating the monstrous regime of apartheid was thought to be impossible. As a nation, we made a decision to choose a different path and, as a common people, found the grace and resolve to shape a new, democratic reality for ourselves. Such is the strength that we, as a nation, have been given. It is time, once again, to draw on that power. And then, just maybe, we will witness another miracle. Volmink is a medical doctor and public health specialist. He is a former MP and current DA Member of the Provincial Legislature in Gauteng. He writes in his personal capacity.