The siblings were born deaf and parents Johan and Tania Venter both have 5% vision and are essentially blind. Before Friday, the siblings could not hear a pin drop until their life-changing hearing devices were finally switched on. The siblings recently underwent a six-hour cochlear implant operation at at the Zuid Afrikaans Hospital. After the procedure, they had to wait a month for the swelling to go down before the implants were activated. When the implants were  switched on siblings looked a little confused and looked around the room at  Eduplex Audiology & Speech Therapy Department. The devices were switched on at low decibels, but will over the weeks be gradually turned up. “I can’t wait for them to call me ‘mom’,” said a tearful Tania, who suffered from progressive disease retinitis pigmentosa, which left her blind. Before this, family members communicated by touch alone; the children could not hear their parents speak and the parents cannot see their children’s signs. The siblings kept on trying out different sounds and noises - and tried talking to each other. It can be difficult for children with cochlear implants to understand the sounds they hear at first. The brain has to learn how to make use of that information Erika Basson, from the Foundation For Children with Hearing Loss, said the children would require intense rehabilitation and programming as they acquired skills and developed language. The Venters said that although they were a unique family with disabilities, they tried by all means to lead a normal life. “It is amazing,” said stepfather Johan. Their biological father, who is sighted, left the family when they were both very young. Their mother recently married Johan, who is also blind. Johan said they had developed ways and means to carry out 
conversation. The children know to knock and bang on doors and walls to attract their parents’ attention; they help their parents in doing daily chores around the house. But he explained that when they are in a public places like a mall or a park, they could not call or see them, and this made ensuring their safety difficult. They had to rely on external help. The road to leading to the operation has not been easy, and the family has tried to raise funds for the implants for many years. They eventually joined the Foundation for Children with Hearing Loss in Southern Africa, which works hand in hand with the Pretoria Ear Institute where the cochlear implant efforts were conducted. A fund-raising campaign was established to raise over R800 000. By the end of 2014, their mother and the Foundation for Children with Hearing Loss had raised R136 000, leaving a shortfall of R668 000. Asked what their plans are, Johan jokingly  said “We don’t know, but we will keep our ears to the ground.” Pretoria News