Following its performance at the national rounds in March, the Tuks Law Moot Society’s Jessup team, consisting of LLB student Ashley Makgatho and Mary-Ann Gettliffe, an LLM student, was invited to represent South Africa at the international rounds in Washington DC. After competing against 143 teams, representing 95 countries in the international rounds, the UP Jessup team finished in the top 16. The team competed in four preliminary oral rounds (determining the top 32 teams in the world) against Luxembourg, Canada, Lithuania and the US. It was eventually knocked out by the Philippines, but still qualified in  the top 16 in the world. This was the largest Jessup year to date, with more than 600 law faculties from more than 95 countries competing, said Professor Christof Heyns from UP’s faculty of law. “Out of the 600 faculties, the Tuks law team ranked higher than Cambridge, Oxford, King’s College, Columbia, Yale and Harvard. South Africa is also the highest ranking team in Africa.” Heyns said this was an outstanding achievement, as it had been 15 years since a team from South Africa had ranked that high in the Jessup Competition - and 18 years for a team from the University of Pretoria. This year’s case which had to be argued was based on international environmental law, international cultural property and heritage law, and international human rights law. The two student legal eagles from Tuks was coached by Gift Kgomosotho and assistant coach Tino Kakora. Heyns, under whose auspices the team was prepared, said he was delighted that they did so well. “We are also happy for South Africa. Our legal education competes well with what the rest of the world has to offer. Students from many faculties in law in the country are ready to take on any challenge.” Heyns said the role of the law and of lawyers in the South African democracy was clear - it was what keeps this country going and “we need to strengthen our law schools”. “My message to law students in our country is that they can make it anywhere, but their duty lies here.  Get international exposure, but you are needed more in South Africa than anywhere else. Ensuring our constitution and our legal system and commitment to justice for all prevails is as worthy a challenge as any young person can hope for.”