This is simply because the only clinic next to town is named after Professor Johan Heyns. To the people of Vanderbijlpark and the nearby townships, Johan Heyns clinic has come to symbolise access to quality medical care to everybody irrespective of race, class, gender and religion. This is a fitting tribute to an accomplished Afrikaans academic theologian who was a dominant figure in changing the stance of the Nederduitse Gereformeerde Kerk (NGK) from supporting apartheid as established, and enforced, by the then Nationalist Party. The system of apartheid was so much entrenched in the NGK that the church was often referred to as “the Nationalist Party in prayer”. During those difficult times of violent repression of anti-apartheid protests, Heyns took a stance, and through his leadership, he moved the NGK from embracing apartheid to supporting the establishment of a democratic and non-racial South Africa. Like many other freedom fighters, Heyns paid the ultimate price for justice, freedom and democracy when he was assassinated by the forces of darkness who were bent on eliminating powerful anti-apartheid activists. Heyns could not remain silent in the face of the wrongs committed by his church. He stood up against his fellow Christians who found nothing wrong with their church supporting apartheid. Heyns was not the only Christian leader within the NGK, who fought against apartheid, there were many others. I am reminded of a Student Christian Association gathering at Wits which was addresses by Dr David Bosch, also an academic theologian in the NGK who, in response to a question from a student about being in the NGK and yet fighting apartheid, quipped: “I am fighting in the NGK against the NGK but for the NGK.” In the mid 1980s, many student activists at Wits University could not sleep when we got the news that black residents were being evicted from a block of flats in Hillbrow, Joburg. It was in the middle of a cold winter night when I saw women and children with their scant possessions sitting, and some sleeping, outside a block of flats. I approached a white man who was walking among the people who were suddenly without a roof over their heads and nowhere to go. The man said he was waiting for a response from the then Supreme Court after he had made an application that would force the landlord to let the residents go back to their flats. I said to him, “this is late at night, how do you expect a court to make a ruling in the middle of the night?”. In spite of my being visibly hurt and irritated, he politely gave me a brief lesson on urgent court interdicts through which a judge can be called at unholy hours to make a ruling. The man was Bishop Peter Storey, a fierce fighter for freedom and social justice. It was in 1979 when Alexandra township was supposed to be demolished by the apartheid government when a Christian leader by the name of Rev Sam Buti took up the fight to save the community from being annihilated. It’s interesting to note that Buti helped save Alexandra at the time when the Nationalist Party regime was at the height of its strength. This servant of God did all he could to preserve a township which later produced many leaders in our society from extinction. I will never forget the sight of Archbishop Emeritus Desmond Tutu in the mid 1980s when he walked out of the Wits Campus after addressing students during chaotic anti-apartheid student protests. What surprised me was that despite the heavy presence of the apartheid police, he confidently walked out without bodyguards. The story of Archbishop Emeritus Tutu and the struggle against apartheid rule is known in all the comers of the world. In 1985 when the apartheid government unleashed all its might to crash resistance against apartheid rule by, among other methods, deploying soldiers in the township and murdering political opponents, Christian leadership convened a conference under the theme “South Africa in a crisis: our response as children of God”. The main outcome was a document referred to as the Kairos document. The document defined itself as a Christian, biblical and theological comment on the political crisis in South Africa in the mid 1980s. It positioned itself as an endeavour by concerned Christians in South Africa to reflect on the political situation. It served as a critique of the then theological models that determined the type of activities the church engaged in to resolve the problems of the country. It was an effort aimed at developing, out of a complicated political situation an alternative biblical and theological model that would lead to forms of Christian action that would make a real difference to the future of our country. The Christian church has, at various times in our contemporary history responded to crises in a manner that was principled, and spoken truth to power. I am of the view that one of the serious crises that the church is faced with is the distortion of biblical teachings which have resulted in Christian congregants being abused by pastors, prophets, evangelists and other authority figures in churches. The past few years have brought to the public attention shocking Christian practices that have, among other things, revealed: Christian congregants being forced to drink petrol and (eat) grass and other things that a normal person would not consume. Insect killing sprays being sprayed into the faces of congregants. Stage-managed miraculous healing in which healthy individuals feign illness and are then “healed” after being touched by the pastors who claim to have healing powers. Members being forced to give up to the church the little cash they would use for mere subsistence with the “faith” that they would have lots of cash coming their way, and in some cases, being promised they will win the lottery millions. So much wrong is being done in some Christian churches that there are legitimate fears that some churches could experience what happened in the US to the followers of Jim Jones. Jones was an infamous pseudo Christian cult leader of the Peoples Temple who in 1978 led more than 900 followers in a mass suicide by cyanide-laced drink. The deaths of these people, who followed Jones’s religious orders without question, taught the world about the real dangers of unquestioning loyalty to cult leaders who claim to have superior spiritual powers. By the look of things, South Africa has not learnt from the history of Jones and the mass killing of his church members. The Christian church in South Africa is in a crisis of heretical Christian teachings and practice, particularly in the townships where gullible and ignorant Christians become victims of abuse and exploitation by modern day Jim Joneses. We are, as a Christian community, confronted with our own “Kairos moment” - things have come to a head and require decisive action from responsible, principled and authentic Christian leadership. Our Christian community needs women and men of courage, such as Heyns, who would take up the fight against heretical Christian teachings and practice. People like Bosch who would fight in the church, against the church but for the church. In Limpopo, it took the MEC for health to approach the courts for an order that would prohibit the “Prophet of Doom” from using an insect repellent on his congregation. Where were Christian leaders such as Reverend Peter Storey who would stay awake late at night waiting for an outcome of a court application that would enforce justice and dignity for the poor and vulnerable? Our communities need leaders such as the late Reverend Sam Buti who would stand up and face the forces of darkness to save our communities from total annihilation by spiritual forces of darkness. Women and men who would display the courage and bravery of Archbishop Emeritus Tutu and walk into a chaotic situation and say “this should not be done in the name of Christ”. As we celebrate the Holy period of Easter may we be reminded of the prophetic words of caution mentioned in Mark 13: 22-23; “At that time if anyone says to you, ‘Look, here is the Christ!’ or ‘There He is!’ do not believe it. For false Christs and false prophets will appear and perform signs and wonders that would deceive even the elect, if that were possible. So be on your guard; I have told you everything in advance.” Dr Tutu Faleni (PhD) is DA member of the North West provincial legislature and a Christian, writing in his personal capacity.