A brief reflection on what the ANC leadership and membership can do may be of some use. The ANC asserts that it is the strategic centre of power in relation to its members located in the state, the organisational terrain and other centres. Especially where its members are deployed, it is critical for the ANC to monitor and evaluate whether its policies are being implemented. Mistakes may be made, but the ANC should assess whether such failures are a consequence of poor implementation, inappropriate policies or leadership weaknesses. This should guide its action. How is this relevant to the latest developments? From communication by some ANC top six officials, after disquiet expressed about the cabinet changes, there was agreement to consult further. When five of the officials (with the chairwoman out of the country), the majority were against the proposed changes, especially in the Treasury. They argued against the retention of poor performers. Treasurer-general Zweli Mkhize says he was left with “a distinct impression that the ANC is no longer the centre”. Party deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa echoed the same sentiment adding they had informed the president they would express their misgivings in public. A campaign has now started to label these officials as ill-disciplined. This, however, sounds hollow given that most of the officials were against a list, to paraphrase secretary-general Gwede Mantashe, cobbled together elsewhere and that they were required merely to legitimise. But the president defied the will of the majority at that meeting, falling back on his constitutional prerogative as head of state and government. This demonstrates a growing divergence of interests and approaches of an individual from those of the ANC. This has been happening for some time, and it is one of the reasons behind  November’s ANC national executive committee (NEC) meeting on whether the president should not consider stepping down as SA’s president. This was part of the introspection about the reasons for the ANC's poor performance in the August local government elections. In recent pronouncements by some, fighting division has been extended to mean “unity at any cost”. But it cannot be unity of the kind where, in a family, a thief or a murderer is caught in the act, and the relatives elect to keep quiet for the sake of family unity. That constitutes complicity and is itself a crime. Unity in the ANC should be based on principle. Violation of what the ANC stands for, by any member at any level, should be combated. That cannot be interpreted as sowing disunity. The call for unity cannot be used as a device to silence voices that seek to combat shameless violation of the ANC’s policies and blatant disregard of the country’s interests. There had recently been hints of some commendable actions to clean up a sullied ANC brand, including the parliamentary hearings on the SABC;efforts to improve the efficiency of infrastructure programmes; interactions between the government, business and labour had improved, staving off a ratings downgrade at the time. Agreement had been reached on funding to support small business, plans to absorb young people into economic activity and so on. Unfortunately, as the Russians put it, Vashka the Cat continued eating. There has been increasing pressure for permission to be granted in Denel’s VR Laser Asia venture. Some strange contortions on nuclear procurement have emerged. Court challenges were lodged to prevent the release of the "State of Capture" report. Legal action was initiated to force the Treasury and the Reserve Bank to grant a banking licence. An appeal is envisaged against the ruling on the appointment of the head of the Hawks. The list goes on. And then there was the cabinet reshuffle, which even ANC officials felt obliged to publicly disown - the bitter fruit SA has started to reap. All this is in total disregard of ANC policies and its electoral interests, let alone social transformation. These demonstrate a divergence between a strange coterie and the ANC, meant to be the centre of power for its members. So, what can be done? The ANC can call for a reversal of the latest cabinet changes. The NEC can reopen the debate on a resignation or recall. The integrity committee needs to be decisive, given that an individual is running roughshod overthe ANC’s and society’s interests. If all this fails, and given the profundity of the implications for the ANC's 2019 electoral prospects, the ANC may want to consider allowing its MPs to vote with their conscience in a vote of no confidence. The latter, uncomfortable as it may be, is about the ANC acting in its own self-interest. In the immediate, it may be career limiting. But, there is nothing more career limiting than losing an election! Fundamental to all this is the need for societal mobilisation against corruption and state capture. Netshitenzhe is executive director of the Mapungubwe Institute. He writes in his personal capacity