Coffins of the 17 killed were lined up on the tiled square outside the monastery ahead of the funeral. Police checked cars as they entered the grounds with hundreds of people gathered outside and dozens of tanks lined parts of the road from Cairo. The blast in Egypt’s second largest city came hours after a bomb struck a Coptic church in Tanta, a nearby city in the Nile Delta, killing at least 30 and wounding nearly 80. Both attacks were claimed by the Islamic State which has waged a campaign against Egypt’s Christian minority, the largest in the Middle East. The Copts, whose presence in Egypt dates back to the Roman era, have long complained of religious persecution and accused the state of not doing enough to protect them. Coming on Palm Sunday, when Christians mark the arrival of Jesus in Jerusalem, the bombings appeared designed to spread fear among Copts, who make up 10% of Egypt’s population. They also raised security fears ahead of a visit to Cairo by Pope Francis planned for April 28 and 29. Coptic Pope Tawadros II, who was leading the mass in Alexandria’s Saint Mark’s Cathedral when the bomb exploded, was not harmed, the Interior Ministry said. The nationwide state of emergency declared by President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi and giving the security forces further sweeping powers was agreed by the cabinet yesterday. It is expected to be approved by parliament within seven days in order to remain in place. Al-Sisi announced the state of emergency during a televised address to the nation. During the first attack in Tanta, the attacker wearing a suicide belt entered the church despite the presence of metal detectors at the entrance. Angry Copts have demanded answers as to how the attacker could get past security and why security wasn’t upgraded at Egyptian churches during an important Christian holiday when they would be filled with worshippers. Their anger follows previous large-scale attacks against churches in Egypt, smaller attacks on Copts in the restive Sinai Peninsula, and increasing threats by Islamists to target Christians who comprise 10% of Egypt’s population of approximately 95 million. The second attack in Alexandria targeted the historic seat of the Coptic Pope. During his televised address, al-Sisi also announced the establishment of the Supreme Council to Combat Terrorism and Extremism, a new body which will be given wide-ranging authority according to laws yet to be issued. The council will change laws relating to religious sectarianism in Egypt as well as legislation dealing with the growing threat of extremism. In December 2016 an attack on St Peter and St Paul’s cathedral in Cairo killed 24 people, most of them women and children. In January 2011, 21 Christians were killed as they attended a New Year’s service in an Alexandrian Coptic church. IS warned in a video released in February that they would not only continue their attacks against Christians, which they regard as infidels, but increase them. Many Copts have been forced to flee the Sinai Peninsula following frequent attacks against them there. Israel has ordered Israelis spending the Passover holiday in the Egyptian Sinai Peninsula to return to Israel immediately and is preventing other Israelis wanting to travel to the Sinai from doing so. Foreign nationals, however, are still allowed to use the Taba border crossing.