Pretoria The man allegedly beat Christinah Mabena with a golf club, put her in hospital and destroyed her income-generating capability yet his family, for whom she worked for many years, had not once called. As she limped out of court leaning heavily on her husband and relatives, the 53-year-old domestic worker on Monday said she was heartbroken. I can t do anything now. I can t go out and work for my family, she said.Mabena had worked for the 28-year-old man s mother in Montana for nine years when he apparently took her cellphone without her permission last November.When she demanded it back he lost his cool and attacked the mother of two, allegedly beating her all over the body with a golf stick.&nbsp;She was rushed to Steve Biko Academic Hospital where she was put into the intensive care unit and treated while in a coma.She had sustained serious injuries to her eye and face, the back of her head, and also had broken ribs. She was discharged from the hospital three weeks later and went back to her KwaNdebele home. He has taken food out of my mouth, she told the Pretoria News. She was at the Pretoria North Magistrate's Court for the third appearance of the man, who now faces charge a of attempted murder.The case was postponed pending the man s psychiatric evaluation, which has been delayed by the lack of beds at Weskoppies Psychiatric Hospital in the city.The lawyer who had previously represented him had also withdrawn, and a new one appeared during Monday s proceedings.Mabena said she had since not heard from her employer, the accused s mother. I don t understand why she hasn't checked on me. There hasn t been any communication in spite of us having had a good relationship. We worked well together. That is why I was able to work for her for so many years. She was constantly in severe pain which made her heavily dependent on her husband, she said. The right side of her body did not function well and she suffered constant dizziness.Her sister, Emma Mabena, expressed her frustration at the pace of the trial. My sister had been in pain for long. She was the breadwinner, now there is no source of income in her home and this is adding to her pain, said Emma. The case was postponed to February 23 pending the availability of a bed at the hospital. The accused remains in custody without bail.Pretoria News