Pretoria - Dynamite comes in small packages - and clich&eacute;d as that might sound, young Naledi Modiba proved that he symbolised this truth.The 9-year-old Grade 4 student from Atteridgeville was on Monday awarded Junior News Anchor of the Year for his ability to read - and read to the public.He enthused that he had been expecting to win because of his hard work and love of reading. I did expect to win this competition because I am confident. Whenever I read the news I make sure I prepare before going on air, he said. He was thankful to his teacher who identified him as worthy to join the competition. This journey began when I was chosen as one of three pupils in my school to enter a reading competition at Peli FM. The competition included reading a book on air, he said. Naledi recalled having read The Lion King to listeners of the Atteridgeville community station.He was among other youth testing their reading skills to be news readers, and since winning the competition in December he has read on air every Saturday morning.And that was not too much for the child, who said it was no hassle at all. I love reading, being on air and reading news every weekend. I am doing something I love, he said.Even with his undying love for reading, he said his career dream was to become a gynaecologist or a paediatrician.The Junior News Anchor was established by the Atteridgeville Youth Lekgotla with the aim of encouraging young people to read. We have seen that the standard of reading in black communities is not where it should be, Lekgotla chief executive Nonhlanhla Sono said. She said the organisation wanted to empower the community through education. With this programme we have targeted junior schools because we know it will be an easy channel. We were also privileged to have partnered with Pheli FM and to have found a way to expose the black child to the world, she said.Community members chose their favourite anchor of the day - and many loved how Naledi was reading on air.Sono said she was proud of Naledi s school, Seaparankwe Primary School, for its support.Naledi received a school uniform and stationery as his prize. We will take care of Naledi from this year until Grade 7, and we'll provide him with stationery and pay his fees, Sono said.&nbsp;Naledi s news slot plays every half hour from 10am until 2pm on Saturdays.Pretoria News