Pretoria Back to school and covering school books has proven to be more than a job for mom, as people across the country have identified it as a business opportunity. Some consider covering school books a chore, but others are willing to lift the weight off them at a price, of course. Hate covering school books? I can do it for you, reads one advert a new trend where anyone from students to grandmothers advertise on social media that they will cover books according to specifications. Prices depend on the type and size of book and what material is supplied and what not.In their postings, which started late in December, people claim a love of covering, and the ability to do it well.The advertisements have circulated mainly on Facebook, increasing in their numbers last week, as schools opened and more cottoned on to the idea, which is not unique to South Africa. Don t have time to cover your children s school books? Please do not hesitate to contact me, says Jessica in Pretoria East. Bring your own covers and adhesives, read a post by 18-year-old Michelle, also in Pretoria East. As with all social media trends, this one has attracted mixed reactions from the public. Some think it is a novel idea; others say such a service is absurd. Alison Kiewiet van Eeden was impressed by the initiative, commenting on how great it was to see a young entrepreneur in the making. But 16-year-old Njabulo Sono of Atteridgeville rubbished the initiative, and said whoever took up the offer was just lazy. In this day and age, who does not know you cover your own books, except the little ones? I cover my own books, I do not love doing it but I will not pay someone to do it for me. Parent Nosimo Smith asked: If you do not cover your child s book, what are you telling him/her? That it is okay to be lazy and pay other people to do your work. Those who were against the outsourcing of the job suggested there was pride to be had in covering one s own books, and it was a parent s time to bond with their children. Sono commented that people may not realise that doing the smallest of things was what brought families together. The fact that we are all in the same room, asking each other about subject names, is bonding as a family, she said. Let us know what you think of the idea. Would you pay someone to cover your child s books? Post your responses on the Pretoria News Facebook page.Pretoria News