Pretoria Each and every resident who detonated fireworks at home to usher in the new year not only disregarded animals but also committed a crime.This was the sentiment shared by Derek du Toit, whose petition calling for the banning of fireworks use by private persons has garnered 21 678 signatures since it was started in 2010.The Midrand resident said he took the decision to start the petition to send to the chief of explosives in South Africa as his community and many others around the country became like war zones during Diwali and New Year s celebrations, with no regard for others. It's not just about the terror it inflicts on animals alone, but also the negative effects it has on children, people suffering from post-traumatic stress disorders and even the elderly. It denies others their rights not to have their peace disturbed during these detonations. It s an invasion of common law that is disregarded by many on certain days. It creates the attitude that it is okay to break the law as long as you do it only once a year, he said.Du Toit said while the City of Tshwane had taken a positive step in aligning the by-laws prohibiting the detonation of fireworks in private residences, or without the permission by the relevant authorities, they had lagged behind in ensuring adequate implementation. Because the police don t know the fireworks law, and their own lack of accountability, it has allowed people to get away with crime. Police need to be informed to not only issue spot fines to those selling fireworks but to ensure that only people allowed to work with pyrotechnics can buy and detonate them, said Du Toit.The resident, who also started a Facebook group, said it was selfish for others to simply pose statements that pets should be locked up or sedated for that brief period. A woman from Moreleta in our group said fireworks in her neighbourhood started at 11pm and went on until 3am. She had to sit with her dog on her lap trembling through the whole ordeal, and people had the audacity to say she should have sedated it. And honestly, why should others have to incur extra expenses because some refuse to acknowledge how these things negatively affect others, said Du Toit.Twitter also had its fair share of people who called for the banning of fireworks, with @Angvanreenen83 tweeting: [email&#160;protected] What is the DA going to do to ensure fireworks are banned/offenders are brought to book? Our animals are suffering! #gripelist residential fireworks users are so inconsiderate. PTSD and animals! Use some common sense a**holes, wrote @TB_KOC.Another Twitter user, @scott_nivag, upset by the continued use of fireworks, wrote: Reading articles about animals that died as a result of fireworks on New Year s Eve makes me MAD. #banfireworks. Jacqui Grove, chairperson of the Tshwane SPCA, said the New Year's fireworks, from December 30 to January 3, had led to 57 animals being reported missing to them, and a further 116 being picked up by good Samaritans.Pretoria News