Pretoria- The tradition of breaking-in newbies at high school has held for decades across city schools, but in recent days the debate has been on the relevance or outdatedness of the practice.Those supporting it call it a right of passage, arguing it strengthened the Grade 8s, called submissives . It s not only a tradition; it is also a form of encouragement for pupils to study hard, said former Ho&euml;rskool Langenhoven pupil Lethabo Maile.He spoke of the days he was subjected to carrying the bag of his master when he arrived at the school, and this included when classes rotated. Whenever it was hot I d always carry his blazer for him; it did not matter if I had mine on or not. Whatever the master said, went. He would always share his lunch box with the older boy, even when he had his own. The practice is as old as the hills, former pupils said, and a cultural aspect of many private schools. It teaches you to respect your seniors all the way from Grade 9 to matric, and while the others aren t allowed to give you instructions, they can take a shot at it if they can, said Clayton Songezo.He would not give the name of his high school, but said it was among the city s pride, and teachers and other staff made sure the practice was kept in check.In the initiation process, Grade 8 pupils are instructed to obey a master, and this includes carrying their bag, doing push-ups at instant instruction, and being available as and when they were needed.But it has its perks. The youngster has protection from their master. No one can harm, insult or disrespect them, you become their prot&eacute;g&eacute;, Songezo said. He would have to ensure that his submissive was not bullied or endured any ill-treatment by other pupils in school, Maile added.But mother Sibongile Mnguni condemned the practice, saying she had seen video footage that sent chills up her spine.In the clip, a boy was seen carrying both his and another pupil s school bags. He was told to fight while carrying both back packs, and instructed to pretend to have super powers to use them against another. They both did as they were told while others watched and laughed at them. The fact that the practice happened everywhere did not make it right, she said. This adds no value to the child s education, but is aimed at poking fun at and embarrassing the small kids, she said.Mnguni said it was nothing but a form of bullying. What is also unfortunate is that the matrics and teachers tell pupils that this is mild compared to their initiation and that they will have fun doing it when they get to matric, she said. The worried mother said the change from primary to high school was stressful enough on its own, and to add bullying was likely to result in emotional, psychological and other effects. She said she took her children to school to be taught, not tortured.But Maile insisted initiation could never be outdated. I enjoyed my chance when I got to Grade 12 I enjoyed walking around in school without worrying about carrying my heavy bag pack. They insisted it was harmless and only meant to ensure new pupils knew their place in the school fraternity.Pretoria News