Pretoria Veteran prosecutor Advocate Gerrie Nel on Tuesday vowed that his departure from State prosecutions and joining civil rights group AfriForum would not compromise on his prosecutorial values and principles.Nel said it was very difficult for him to resign from the National Prosecuting Authority after 36 years, but he is looking forward to the new challenge. &quot;When I was approached by AfriForum, my main concern has always been that everybody should be equal before the law. I've known, read and have seen that there is more and more perception that there might be selective prosecutions. If that is so, then it's absolutely brilliant to have an organisation that ensures that everybody is equal before the law,&quot; Nel addressed reporters in Pretoria. &quot;I've not had a single question about my political affiliation at any discussion with AfriForum. I've never had a political agenda, and I don't have one now. I've been a prosecutor for 36 years and I think I've build up integrity that I'm proud of. I won't sell my integrity and do something that I don't believe in.&quot; &quot;I believe in the supreme authority of the law. AfriForum's newly founded private prosecuting unit gives me the opportunity within civil society to help ensure that everyone, irrespective of position, is equal before the law.. We are now in a position to prosecute ourselves, corrupt persons who are not prosecuted by the NPA.&quot;Nel challenged South Africans and the international community to closely follow his career and observe if he would lose focus. He said the private prosecutions will not be pursued through the media. &quot;We have decided not to prosecute people through the media. I think it's a hurtful and harmful process of splashing all over the media who you are pursuing and what you are pursuing. Once we have decided to pursue a certain matter, we will certainly do so,&quot; said Nel. Nel said they unit will not only prosecute corrupt politicians, but anyone who has a case to answer to. He also made it clear that the unit will gun for anyone, whether it being the high flyers, politicians on government level or ordinary citizens which the NPA declined to prosecute.While he stead fast refused to pinpoint any cases the unit will work on at this stage, he acknowledge that &quot;some old files may be dusted off.&quot;He was with AfriForum chief executive Kallie Kriel at the highly attended media conference. Nel said it has been a tough decision to take the AfriForum offer to initiate and lead the private prosecuting unit. Nel led the prosecution of a number of high profile cases, including that of disgraced former Paralympian Oscar Pistorius who killed his girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp in his Pretoria house in 2013. Judge Thokozile Masipa sentenced Pistorius to five years in 2014. The State s appeal against the sentence, seen by many as too lenient for the crime, saw the Supreme Court of Appeal overturning the initial culpable homicide conviction to murder. Masipa then sentenced Pistorius for the second time to six years. Nel, known for his no-nonsense approach when doing cross-examinations in court, enjoyed a stellar career and served the National Prosecuting Authority for more than 30 years. Other celebrated cases included the prosecution of the late former police national commissioner and head of Interpol, Jackie Selebi, whom Nel nailed for corruption, and was sentenced to 15 years. He served a few months before he was released on medical parole in 2012. Nel also led the prosecution against Clive Derby-Lewis and Janusz Walus, who were jailed for the murder of anti-apartheid struggle hero Chris Hani in 1993.African News Agency and Pretoria News