Pretoria - A multimillion-rand bursary scheme to uncover cricket talent in Pretoria's previously disadvantaged areas was unveiled on Friday night at SuperSport Park in Centurion.The brains behind the bursary are the Northerns Cricket Union, Curro Schools and the Multiply Titans, who came together to create the programme. The relationship will result in the grooming of at least 100 more disadvantaged teen cricketers in the next three to four years. The bursary scheme was set to support 30 bursaries a year to the tune of about R5million. It will support talent scouting to be conducted at district trials. The cricket programme was made possible by the support of the Ruta Sechaba Foundation Bursary scheme, established in 2016 to provide academic and other sport-related scholarships, bursaries and awards to qualifying pupils at Curro and Curro-managed schools. Qualifying pupils from previously disadvantaged backgrounds will receive an independent education at Curro Schools. Beneficiaries will be kitted out with all the necessary gear to help them excel in the development of their cricket skills. Curro spokesperson Phakamisa Nzamela said the programme would ensure the development of healthy academic prowess alongside cricketing abilities.The bursaries would support annual school fees and levies, a tablet, transport for nine months, stationery and textbooks.Johan Muller, cricket operations manager at the Northerns Cricket Union, said: This new development plan is aimed at producing cricketers for the Proteas, but also well-rounded individuals, academically sound and superb community leaders for the nation. Curro Holdings will finance the improvement of grass pitches, practice nets and sight-screens to the tune of R1m this year.Curro Holdings chief executive Dr Chris van der Merwe said: As a leading independent education provider in the country, it made sense to put our weight behind a youth sports initiative that will boost the transformation of South African school cricket. Northerns Cricket Union will help with an in-depth cricket education programme for Curro teachers identified as coaches and assistants. Teachers will undergo the necessary training to improve their skills as Level I and Level II cricket coaches.Pretoria News