Pretoria Controversy has erupted around the appointment of the city manager after it emerged that he was not on the initial list of shortlisted candidates.Marketing guru Moeketsi Mosola was officially announced as the new city manager by the DA-led administration at a city council meeting last week.It came amid claims that the recruitment process was tainted with illegal technicalities.Allegations that the recruitment process was irregular were made by the ANC in the council on Thursday last week.Party regional secretary Paul Mojapelo said the ANC would brief the media on Monday to elaborate on the claims that the appointment was irregularly done. You can't fool the ANC. We have been in government and we know all these processes, Mojapelo said.The ANC would expose how the DA opted not to renew contracts of experienced city officials despite the Auditor-General's 2015/16 report showing that they had done a good job, he said. The city obtained an unqualified report.Mosola did not form part of the initial shortlisted five candidates interviewed on November 23 last year, the ANC said.After the interviews, council Speaker Katlego Mathebe called a special council meeting on December 7 to deal with the municipal manager position. However, mayor Solly Msimanga requested an extension to allow the panel to apply its mind.The selection panel convened a meeting on January 16 this year to discuss November 23 interviews.At the meeting, it was decided that four additional candidates be shortlisted and that they be interviewed on January 23 this year.Mosola was among the four candidates shortlisted and interviewed in a second round of interviews. The report did not cite reasons why the panel decided to add four more candidates.The panel meeting was captured in the council report detailing how the recruitment drive unfolded since its advertisement in July 2016. The purpose of the report is to obtain approval from the council for the appointment of an incumbent in the position of city manager, it read in part.Former city chief financial officer Andile Dyakala and acting city manager Lindiwe Kwele were among the first five shortlisted candidates. Despite the fact that they were already interviewed last year, the pair were invited for a second round of interviews to clarify certain questions , the report said. Kwele came second and and Dyakala third.On the eve of the council sitting last week, Msimanga announced that the selection panel had picked Mosola for the top post.Mayoral spokesperson Samkelo Mgobozi said Msimanga was pleased with the council s appointment of the new city manager.Mosola was nominated by Msimanga following a comprehensive and stringent nomination process whereby candidates were subjected to psychometric tests and exhaustive interviews by a multiparty panel, he said. On the panel was an external panellist not affiliated to any party. The council did so observing the letter of the law and due process that govern the nomination and confirmation of a candidate for city manager. To this end, council's appointment will now go to the Gauteng MEC for Local Government for concurrence, he said. The ANC opposed the nomination of Mosola owing to their inability to accept the democratic outcomes and change brought about by the local government elections .Pretoria News