Both the community and police are scratching their heads about the murder of the man and his wife, who had been reported missing by their son at Soshanguve police station.  The 25-year-old had told police that his parents went missing on December 17. Hours later, Pretoria North police were alerted to two bodies found along the road.  The Pretoria News has withheld the names of the dead couple to conceal the identify of the son, who is suspected of being involved, but hasn't been charged. “The police went to the scene and found that the bodies had multiple stab wounds, mostly on the upper body. They appeared to have been there for a day or two. The bodies matched those of the couple reported missing earlier in the day,” said police spokesperson Constable Zanele Mtsweni.  She said it wasn't known what instruments had been used to kill the pair, nor was it clear what the motive behind the murders was.  Mtsweni said as soon as the police discovered that the bodies identified were those of the missing couple, they went to their home to collect evidence. “When they arrived at the house, they found traces of blood. Following the discovery of other questionable elements on the scene, the police arrested the couple’s 25-year-old son. He was released (yesterday),” she said. Mtsweni said the son was released because the case wasn't put on the court roll and there wasn't enough evidence that directly linked him to the crime. However, a case of murder had been opened and investigations were under way. While the police investigated the matter, word spread and people started discussing the crime.  The unofficial version had it that the husband went to switch on a light at the four-roomed house the family had rented out to students for accommodation. According residents, the wife noticed her husband was taking longer than usual and went to check up on him. However, she walked in on unknown people stabbing him. They subsequently turned on her and stabbed her to death too. Locals further alleged the murder was committed by informal business people in the area, who were foreigners. A group of residents then attacked the traders and and broke into their businesses.  The Pretoria News visited the family and found relatives gathered at the house, but they refused to discuss the matter. Pretoria News