They gathered at the Union Buildings in the morning and took part in the 10km race and 5km walk. This was to honour Nelson Mandela’s last moments when his mortal remains lay in state for five days after his death in December 2013. MEC for Sports, Arts and Recreation, Faith Mazibuko, said the purpose was to allow participants to retrace the steps of the motorcade that carried Mandela’s body from 1 Military Hospital to the Union Buildings. The participants walked past Lilian Ngoyi Square, Tshwane House and Sammy Marks Square.  Mazibuko said: “If you walk on these routes, you then walk in the footsteps of a giant; a man who was peaceful, a man who made it possible that all of us have the right to vote today.” The day started with diginitaries taking part in a wreath-laying ceremony. The 10km race was introduced for the first time this year, and more than 5000 participants registered for it. The runners were the first to hit the road at 7.30am, followed by the 5km walkers 30 minutes later. By then, the 10km race winner, Sibusiso Nzima, had reached the finish line. Mazibuko said: “We believe it was a success because it was the first time we are including the race. With 5000 participants who registered for it, we do believe we made a mark.” According to her, there were already bigger plans for next year’s event. “Next year we hope to introduce a 21km race,” she said. The event marked the four-year anniversary of Mandela’s death.  “Every year since 2014, we have come to remember the great leader of our people through the Mandela Remembrance Walk,” said Premier David Makhura. He said participation in the event was not just about running and 
walking.  “This is about us remembering the long walk to freedom of Mandela and his generation.  “For us, we hope that for many years to come the people of our province will remember the last moments of Mandela in this province,” he said. Makhura said that while Mandela was born in the Eastern Cape, Gauteng was instrumental in shaping his political ideas and leadership qualities. “He was born in the Eastern Cape but he actually became a participant in the liberation Struggle principally in this province,” he said. He added that the occasion was about remembering the final week when Mandela’s body was at the Union Buildings, and thousands of people queued to view his remains. “This is a moment we rededicate our generation and the young people. About 6000 young people from schools were invited to rededicate themselves to the legacy of Mandela,” Makhura said. He added that the organisers estimated the number of people who attended to be about 19000, despite their target of attracting 20000. “I would like to see this growing like the carnival that comes to the capital city. We want more South Africans from all walks of life to remember his last moments.  “Next year is the centenary of Mandela, and I would like to see us even doubling the number of participants,” he said. Some scantily clad Khoisan men who took part in the walk received much attention from other participants.  People took selfies with them, while others photographed them and posted their pictures on social media platforms.  The group is camping at the Union Buildings and has vowed to stay until President Jacob Zuma or Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa hears their plea for recognition.  Their leader, Chief Khoisan SA, said: “Our participation in the race is to honour Madiba, but to also bring awareness of our plight at the Union Buildings.  “We have achieved our goal today and at this moment people are sharing it on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.”