The youth entrepreneurship development programme has been running for 22 years. Lekalakala, who owns a Pretoria North business called B-MA, was named the overall winner. He services and repairs BMW and Mini Cooper vehicles that are no longer under a motor plan. He said he started from the bottom and used to work at a BMW plant.  He was so passionate about cars that he decided to leave his day job and in 2011 he started going from house to house to market what he had to offer. “When I had saved enough money I left that job and started my own business of servicing and repairing BMW and Mini Cooper vehicles that were no longer under a motor plan. I literally went to people’s houses to market myself, and by 2015 I had a proper structure and business. “At B-MA we offer our clients a personal touch relationship; a client can never complain about the same problem twice. SAB provided me with an excellent opportunity for growth,” he said. He said he planned  on opening six workshops across the country, and would develop them into proper dealerships.  “We are building a brand here, and making sure we provide quality services to our clients. With that I hope this business expands. I want  six branches across the provinces, and hopefully as time goes by I can expand the workshops to dealerships.” Mdake, who was placed third, is the owner of Shangilia Boutique Spa, a beauty and wellness business in Hammanskraal. “I’m excited and humbled because this really gave me a boost, it gave me an opportunity to take it to the next level and be part of the growth to hire people and to elevate employment,” she said. “Being at the SAB KickStart Boost made me see my business in another light being in a room full of like-minded people was amazing as we had intense training in finance, how to sell your business, how to understand numbers and how you should do things differently,” she said. This year’s SAB KickStart Boost Awards theme was “Fuelling the Fire of Youth Business”. The winners were selected based on their personal as well as commercial performance during the programme, which included their business growth based on the capital injection, the number of jobs created, as well as the potential and sustainability of the businesses to grow further. The SAB KickStart Boost finalists underwent an intensive business skills boot camp and an individualised mentorship programme that focused on personal and business development.  SAB said an interactive approach was followed to implement the development, which included business development toolkits, templates, readings, case studies and real business challenges to solve. Lekalakala took home R500000 prize money and Mdake R150000. Mdake shared third place with Nthabiseng Lemena, owner of clothes manufacturing business, Lemena TN Solutions (Pty) in Welkom. Second was awarded to Zama Buthelezi of The She Creative House CC, a vegetable farm that specialises in sustainable farming practices, based in KwaZulu-Natal. Her prize money is R400 000.