KZN’s woes started when Premier Zweli Mkhize became the treasurer-general of the party, kicking off a bitter contest for the position of chairperson.  Yesterday, ANC Youth League KZN chairperson Kwazi Mshengu told Independent Media that talks on ending the infighting, which saw a court barring 27 provincial executive committee members from voting, would be held. Mshengu said it was sad that the divisions had resulted in neither camp getting a single person elected to the ANC’s top 6. “The problem of divisions started in Eastern Cape, and look where they are now. This problem moved to KZN, and look where we are now,” he said. “Going back home we need to sober up and ask ourselves what is in the interest of the organisation and people of KwaZulu-Natal,” he added. Mshengu said the province would expect Ramaphosa’s NEC to guide them on how to resolve the court imposed stalemate. “This NEC will take a decision based on what we believe is in the best interests of the organisation,” said Mshengu. Sthembiso Mshengu, the spokesperson for the disgruntled ANC members who sued the KZN PEC, said they were ready to talk peace. “We were the first to call for the negotiations even before we took the matter to court,” said Mshengu. But Ramaphosa supporters in the province put up a fight over the missing 68 votes which they believe could have helped their candidate Senzo Mchunu become secretary-general. “Yesterday on the first count comrade Senzo Mchunu emerged, then comrade Nomvula Mokonyane requested a recount of which the results changed to favour Ace Magashule. “It shows that 68 voters were missing. It was necessary to find out where the missing 68 ballot papers are, and the steering committee (members) are discussing the issue of counting”, said one of the delegates. There were fears, especially after the defeat of the ANC by IFP in Nquthu early this year, that the ANC’s weakening in KZN could provide fertile recruiting ground for the IFP. But political analyst Somadoda Fikeni said that with its leader Mangosuthu Buthelezi retiring, the IFP might struggle to take over the provincial government in 2019 elections even if the ANC fails to resolve its challenges. “The IFP would not rise on the basis of that because Buthelezi who is the face of the IFP is leaving now, and the new person may not have the national footprint. “However, it does not mean that if the ANC continues to hurt itself it would not create a gap for the IFP, DA, EFF and others,” he said. University of KwaZulu-Natal political analyst Lukhona Mnguni also felt that despite the ANC having lost prominent KwaZulu-Natal-based leaders the IFP would take years to wrestle to the province from the ANC. “The IFP has been losing about two percent from elections to elections irrespective of other dynamics and other political parties. “This is inherent because as time goes by the voters’ roll increases, but because they have no national footprint where its support base grows. As a proportion of a growing voters' roll, the IFP continues to receive less,” said Mnguni.