The department has invited the public to comment on its draft rural education policy. In the document published in the National Gazette, the department said the policy “aims to ensure that rural schools provide quality education for all learners”. It said pro-poor initiatives implemented since 1994 to bring rural schools to an equal footing with their urban counterparts had not yielded results.  “In spite of these significant interventions, a large number of rural schools are still characterised by inadequate resources, teacher shortages, absenteeism and learners that drop out from school, and above all, poor educational outcomes.”  Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga had also implemented initiatives aimed at improving the quality of education in rural schools, pointed out the document.  But “progress towards achieving these goals is uneven, with rural schools continuing to bear the brunt of inequality (in human and material resources) and poor performance”. “The (proposed) policy aims to address the isolation, disconnectedness, shame and distrust, as well as the lack of development often associated with rural communities and schools.” Inequalities between rural and urban schools are brought to the fore each year following the release of matric results.  Schools performing badly, with some scoring zero passes, are largely in rural schools. But rural schools are also known for a shortage of resources and teachers.  Just weeks ago, NGO Equal Education revealed in a report that many pupils in Limpopo’s rural schools continued to use “dangerous and undignified” toilets. The department’s document said the “resource shortages experienced by rural schools” could be addressed by fiscal investments. But “civic agency” was also required. The department said this would see communities allowing pupils to use their agricultural resources, for instance, for learning purposes.  Pointing out the difficulties of attracting teachers to rural schools, the department proposed incentives. It called for building of teacher villages for “safe accommodation, recreation and other essential services”. The department also sought to rope in matriculants and unemployed graduates to serve as teaching and administration volunteers. “The intention is to recruit and train local young people to enter the teaching profession.” Mugwena Maluleke, secretary-general of the SA Democratic Teachers Union, said “assistant teachers” were urgently needed in rural schools.  “We need to have extra teachers who will assist our teachers to cope with the fact that parents are either migrant workers or the elderly staying with grandchildren,” said Maluleke.  “These assistant teachers can assist learners with completing their homework and helping them to read.”  Several schools in deep rural areas are teaching multi-grade classrooms.  This entails teaching pupils from different grades in one class. The schools, usually with low pupil enrolment, resort to this because the department would not supply enough teachers.  The department now appeared to have realised the damage multi-grade teaching was inflicting on rural pupils. 