The event is the third SA Science Forum, initiated by Science and Technology Minister Naledi Pandor to showcase the country’s contribution to science, and bring world-class scientists to debate the role of science in improving lives. The conference will be opened this morning by Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa before an array of discussions and debates with a special focus on the role of young people in the field. Pandor said holding such an event in South Africa was important at a time of international collaboration in many developments in science. After attending similar events in other countries Pandor said she was thrilled with how the local forum was gaining traction and particularly pleased with the high level of speakers and increased number of African delegates and exhibitors. She said she wanted to dispel Afro-pessimism, to tell the world: “We do science in Africa. We should recognise we have excellent scientists and are ready to build partnerships and do business with the world." Allied to this is how South Africa improves its performance in science, technology, engineering and maths (the Stem subjects) with the addition of “I” for innovation. The forum this year expands its focus on young scientists and entrepreneurs - in one session a young scientist sits alongside a Nobel laureaute, she said. “At Science Forum, we are building confidence in our people here and in Africa, we are challenging young people to aspire, and we are saying ‘you can be as good as anyone’." Outreach programmes - including the Science on the Square project, which takes eminent scientists into the community to showcase the subject - are part of that. To achieve continued success, Pandor says there is a need to expand the number of young people and especially black people and women doing postgraduate research. Pandor also revels in the work of social innovators, citing the example to a young person who develops better building material for informal housing or a basic alarm system to warn a community of impending fire. Among the sessions are the future of science - the panel includes British geoscientist Professor Geoffrey Boulton and prominent African author Ben Okri; research and innovation - the panel includes Dr Susan Desmond-Hellmann, chief of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, Professor Phil Diamond of the SKA, and Robert-Jan Smits of the European Commission.