Ntuli started writing as an 18-year-old and his first novel UBheka was published when he was 21.  “I have always been writing in isiZulu, but some of my work has been translated into English," Ntuli revealed.  "I grew up in an area where we appreciated the love for languages, especially my language among people who spoke no other language but isiZulu.  "When I went to college I was the only one excelling because I had a very sound background in the language itself, and then I fell in love with it.  “I decided I would rather stick to it, improve it and study it. It was one of my major subjects for my degree. From then I never looked back,” he said. Ntuli's novels include Ngiyoze Ngimthole, uNdlela kaSompisi, and Ngingu Sosobala Mbatha. His works included academic books, articles, short stories, drama and poetry. His novel Uhambo Olude won a national award in  2004. Event organiser Mandla Mona said Ntuli was an advocate of IsiZulu language. “He initiated a Writing Association, which is still going strong. “There are also a number of theses which he wrote. As the National library of South Africa we looked at people who contributed towards South African indigenous languages and he is one of the living legends we are starting to celebrate,” Mona said. Ntuli has also worked as a translator for many private companies and government departments. One outstanding book he translated into IsiZulu was Nelson Mandela’s biography Long Walk to Freedom. Reacting to message of gratitudes expressed by the audience, he said: “It makes one feel humbled but great to know that the people appreciate the work you do. You don’t do these things because you are looking forward to awards. But if they come all of a sudden from well-meaning people one feels grateful.” Ntuli bemoaned the lack of use of indigenous languages, saying many people seemed not to appreciate their value. “We seem to be divided now because in the past we used to try as much as we could to promote English. But we also had other people who felt our languages are rich and they must be used and must be utilised.  "What made them look inferior in the past was that there was more preference for English because they told us that it would take us all over the world and IsiZulu would only limit you to a small area,” he said. In 2007, Ntuli was part of the team which worked on the Zulu spellcheck for Microsoft under the  University of the North West and Unisa. Microsoft also used him to coin and verify Zulu terms for  computer operations. Ntuli has retired but still serves as an external examiner for some universities. He worked for three years as an announcer for SABC before joining Unisa as an isiZulu language assistant. 