He is married.   1. Are you originally from Tshwane?  No, I am originally from a small village called Sephai near Brits in North West province, and arrived in Pretoria (Mamelodi) when I was 11.   2. What do you like most about the city The calmness of the city compared with others that I have visited, the jacaranda trees, the humility of the people. The old buildings like the Union Buildings and the Pretoria Train Station. The easy-pace vibe the City has, and most importantly the lovely weather, including the afternoon summer showers.  3. Where do you hang out or go for fun?  Eastwoods Tavern on soccer or rugby match days, Old Town Italy (Menlyn Maine) for brunch with the wife. Nothing beats Thibo Café in Mamelodi on Sunday afternoons   4. What things would you change if you were mayor?  I would create solar villages on the city sky scrapers, to free the city from the Eskom monopoly and create a green economy. I would also maintain and build more sports facilities in the townships, finish off the work done on Pitjie Stadium in Mamelodi, and erect cycling and running lanes.   5. What is your job and does it satisfy you?  I am a legal adviser at the Gauteng Provincial Legislature, an advocate of the High Court and would not exchange my current a job for anything, except being the mayor of Tshwane.   6. What do you think are the advantages of living in the city? Being surrounded by academic institutions, the State Theatre, the Pretoria Zoo, art museums, makes the city vibey and highly attractive to live in.    7. If you could move away from the city, where would you go and why? I don’t see myself or my family moving away from the city. Having stayed in Cape Town and Joburg, I cannot trade the city of Tshwane for any other, unless Havana in Cuba is on a fever.    8. Which sports teams do you support? The Blue Bulls and Mamelodi Sundowns - we say Mamelodi are better than South Africa.   9. Are there any people in the city who you look up to or who have shaped your life in any way? The retired deputy chief justice Dikgang Moseneke, always a pleasure meeting him at the Pretoria Country Club, the jazz maestros Don Laka and Vusi Mahlasela, friends in the legal profession including Mr Sekepe Thobejane and Advocate Thabo Babedi.  10. What mode of transport do you use and is it convenient? I commute daily to Joburg using the Gautrain.