Building successful businesses and providing much-needed employment in their communities, is exactly what the winners of the Sunlight Liquid Go Further competition hope to achieve. One winner, Ga-Rankuwa resident Kate Mashilo, 39, said she had always dreamt of studying further but didn’t know how to go about it. After getting married, she opted to put her dreams on hold to focus on taking care of her family. “Since childhood, girls are taught that their primary role is to look after the family and do household chores. I am happy that my husband has seen that with business skills and education, I can make choices that balance both my work and family lives,” Mashilo said. Having won a cooking course through the competition, Mashilo was further encouraged by her husband to complete matric next year. “My dream is to own a restaurant because I am passionate about cooking. Owning a business will make me financially independent and I can also contribute to the household income. My children will have a better life and this is what my heart desires.” Portia Mofolo, 40, from Soshanguve, said education and skills were part of the solution she believed would help alleviate the problem of women being subservient and stuck in abusive relationships. “If you have education you can do a lot for yourself, your children and family.  "We need to start building our confidence as women that we too can have successful businesses and careers,” Mofolo said. The 2014 MasterChef runner-up, Siphokazi Mdlankomo, said it was important for women to go further as they were “jacks of all trades” and often multiplied what they were given. Mdlankomo said having come from a poor background herself, she wanted to encourage the winners to grab the opportunity they had been given to catapult themselves to greater heights. “I make sure that when I do something I always give 110% and that is the attitude that I want them to embody. I got my opportunity and this is theirs, I want them to put their best foot forward.” Winnie Ntsaba, Sunlight brand ambassador, said she was proud to be part of an initiative by a private company to upskill women who were the backbone of many communities across the country. Ntsaba said: “We all tend to rely on the government to provide us with opportunities, but this is a company project that will make a significant contribution. Male of female, we all want to provide for ourselves and our families and it starts with being able to help yourself.”