Shisana, a former chief executive of the South African Human Sciences Research Council, was honoured for putting science at the service of others by fostering international friendships with other countries. Science and Technology Minister Naledi Pandor said Shisana contributed immensely to advancing the agenda of women in the science and technology sector. Shisana, chief executive of Evidence Based Solutions in Cape Town, had advanced South Africa’s position in the global science arena, Pandor said. Another recipient was Robert-Jan Smits, the European Commission’s director-general for research, innovation and science, who scooped an award for excellence in global science. Smits was praised for his contributions, for more than a decade, to the strategic South Africa-EU science partnership. Dr Heide Hackmann, executive director at the International Council for Science, was acknowledged for her role in the merger of the council and the International Social Science Council. The move was said to have harnessed scientific advice for multilateral decision-making. Professor Phuti Ngoepe of the University of Limpopo has been instrumental in leveraging international co-operation to support the career development of young scientists in Africa. He received the Human Capital Development award for his efforts and dedication. Professor Arun Kulshreshtha, the outgoing director-general of the Non-Aligned Movement Centre for Science and Technology, received the International Peace Understanding and Solidarity Award for successfully ensuring the centre succeeded in its endeavour, despite limited resources. Speaking to an audience after the ceremony, Pandor said there were plans to host the prestigious World Science Forum in 2021 in Africa. Pandor said the deal was not yet sealed as the department had to start talks with the Hungarian Academy of Science and other organisers of the World Science Forum. The hosting of such an international event, she said, would assist in elevating the profile of African science on the global stage. “There was a strong call at the forum for governments to invest in science and innovation in Africa, and to develop robust national systems of innovation. Deputy President Ramaphosa tasked us to design innovation systems to encourage young people to turn ideas into products and services,” she said. See Page 16