She said many had lost weight due to some of the programmes introduced last year when they launched the first Physical Fitness Maintenance Policy. The policy allowed members to participate in weekly structured exercise programmes in order to improve and maintain their fitness levels.  As part of the policy, the police this year introduced the Healthy Lifestyle Intervention Programme for overweight members. She said the policy and its programmes were launched in order for members to be able to perform their functional policing duties in combating crime, and said there was progress as members had lost weight, while others were still shedding necessary kilos. “Thus far, the programme is yielding positive results with members showing signs of improvement with regards to their health, fitness and overall wellness.  “To this end, the physical fitness maintenance policy has been assigned to the provincial commissioners to be implemented and it is worth noting that significant progress has been made with the participation of members in physical fitness activities nationwide,” she said. She further explained that in giving effect to the policy, all members were expected to undergo physical fitness assessments once a year to reach their physical fitness standard. To demonstrate the progress of the policy, officers participated in a wellness day event at Tshwane Police Academy in Pretoria West, where emphasis on physical 
fitness and wellness to encourage the well-being of members was made. The day was held to encourage healthy lifestyles to ensure they were always mentally and physically ready to execute their constitutional mandate. They started with a 5km walk and run, which paved the way for a host of physical activities which included a mass aerobics session, rugby and football matches.  There was health screening, police officers were assessed for life-threatening diseases such as hypertension, cholesterol and glucose.  They were also assessed on their body mass index score to determine health risks to chronic medical conditions.  “The purpose of the event was also to assist our members to know the importance of engaging in physical fitness, which can lead to improved self-confidence, increased energy levels, decreased stress levels and improved quality of life.  National police commissioner General Khehla Sitole said: “Let’s see this event as a step towards the preventative fitness maintenance programme; the desired outcome of any preventative maintenance programme is to eliminate or arrest problems before they become issues of major concern.” 