Key sections of the Maintenance Amendment Act will come into effect on January 5 after President Jacob Zuma and Justice Minister Michael Masutha approved regulations allowing the enforcement of the law. The new law will give maintenance officers powers to track child maintenance defaulters through information obtained from cellphone service 
providers. According to the new regulations, should maintenance defaulters persist in refusing to pay they will be blacklisted from getting credit. Deputy Justice Minister John Jeffery told Independent Media yesterday that the two-year delay in the implementation of the law was due to consultations with credit service providers. “It relates basically to the provisions that maintenance defaulters who don’t pay can be blacklisted, so there had to be involvement and engagement with the credit service providers over the regulations,” Jeffery said. The government was confident it had the capacity to fulfil its mandate in relation to collecting “papgeld”, he said. 
“We wouldn’t have done it if we didn’t think we could,” he said. Jeffery said parents of children who were not being paid maintenance needed to apply for their exes to be blacklisted. The new law demands that “papgeld” dodgers be brought to book for not paying for the maintenance of their children. It will also target rich ex-husbands who hide their wealth in trusts. The Justice Department’s law reform commission identified setting up of trusts as a way of hiding wealth to evade “papgeld” obligations. When the promulgation of the new law was approved by Parliament in 2015, the plan was for courts to examine all such possessions and deal decisively with situations where maintenance debtors establish trusts with the sole intention of hiding their assets to disadvantage claimants. Even trusts will now be susceptible to Zuma’s new law depending on income. Jeffery said the delay was due to planning for the new regulations. The law that was approved in 2015 states that beneficiaries will be able to claim maintenance where they work and not only where they live to make it easier for beneficiaries to go to the maintenance court during working hours.