Children have to create make-shift bridges to get across the sewage while their parents buy sand to cover up the dirty water. Lesego Ramashaba said the community had been battling with overflowing drains for months on end with no solution in sight. Their biggest concern was that children as young as 8 were forced to play near the water unaware of the high risks of contracting diseases from whatever bacteria lay in wait. Adding to their woes was that the water covered the road, hiding large potholes. Despite calls to the municipality to fix the pump station and leaking pipes, there had been no progress or communication, he said. “It’s all a mess here. Cars are damaged, and the mess is flowing into our homes now. We can’t be left to wait while our health is being placed at such a risk.” Commenting on the number of times the community had tried to report the matter to the municipality, he said the sewage leak stopped for two days last month, but then  it started flowing again. Ramashaba said: “When the people from the municipality eventually came they simply poured a salt-like substance over the flowing pipes and told us the problem was fixed. But then it started up and hasn’t stopped since.” The resident said they did not understand why the pump station located in the area wasn't working. Labourers had informed them they were going on strike and it had to be up and running earlier. Another resident, France Ntseka, said the stench become almost unbearable during the day. He said: “You won’t even be able to sit or stand outside because it gets so bad. It’s easy for them to tell us to wait while they attended to the problem but they don’t have to live with this day in and out.” Half of Moses Moshe’s property is filled with sewage, and he said he had tried everything he could think of to cover the stinky water. When the Pretoria News visited his home, a truck was off-loading sand to cover the sewage, and Moshe said it was his third load, which had been sent by the councillor. Moshe said that on two previous occasions he had paid R600 for the sand. “Each time I bought the sand, within a week the sewage would fill up yet again. I tried once more and that too proved futile,” he said. “It’s been like this since September and my biggest concern is that it is going underneath the house’s infrastructure and I am worried it might damage my home.” City spokesperson Lindela Mashigo said the City was aware of the problem and a contractor had been appointed to fix the pump station. He added that the constant spillage experienced was mainly aggravated by vandalism. “It has been going on for a number of months now due to constant vandalism and this is negatively affecting our communities. However, the City will do all in its power to put an end to vandalism to its infrastructure.” Mashigo said the City was, as such, looking at security options to prevent further vandalism and damage. “At the same time, we are encouraging communities to report activities to law enforcement authorities as they are also key to the solution,” he added. Townships such as Atteridgeville, Soshanguve and Mabopane have been plagued by sewage spills for years, with community members from numerous zones, like in Ga-Rankuwa, calling for humanitarian assistance. Lawyers for Human Rights representatives came in to take their plight to court. Yesterday, the lawyer’s spokesperson, Carol Mohlala, said their environmental rights department was handling the matter and they were still in negotiations with the City to settle out of court. Speaking of the legal battles facing the City over sewage issues, Mashigo said the City hoped residents would not go the legal route as the City had projects under way to alleviate the problems experienced.