Judge Cynthia Pretoria made the settlement an order of the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, yesterday. The boy, who may not be identified as he was under-aged when the incident occurred in 2011, did not suffer lasting physical effects. But the judge noted that the damages would go towards the emotional trauma he had to endure and the psychological counselling he still had to receive. The MEC earlier this year already paid R64 888 to the parents of the boy for the damages they had suffered due to his ordeal and the medical expenses they have incurred. The then 12-year-old’s rectum was ruptured as a result of the incident and he suffered severe intestinal injuries. This damage was surgically repaired. The parents initially claimed nearly R700 000 in damages. The court in May ordered the department to make an interim payment towards the boy’s medical costs. The rest of the damages due to the victim himself was postponed to 
yesterday. The court found that the education authorities were responsible for his damages, as the teacher who was responsible for monitoring the class, had stepped out at the time. This, it was found, was negligent conduct as the pupils needed around the clock supervision. The boy attended a special needs school where most of the pupils displayed behavioural problems. According to court papers the teacher who was supervising the class in which the boy was, stepped out at about noon on November 17, 2011. He left the class unsupervised while he knew that the pupils exhibited behavioural problems and had access to equipment which could harm someone. A group, who consisted of Grade 6 to Grade 8 pupils, assaulted the boy when the teacher left. It is stated that they grabbed him by his arm and violently bent him forward over a table.  They pressed the compressor pipe which they found in the classroom into his anus and pumped air at a high pressure into him. Due to his ruptured rectum he lost consciousness ad he was rushed to the Middelburg Hospital, where an emergency operation was performed on him. He had to spend four days in intensive care and several more days in a normal ward. His parents said he had to undergo  trauma counselling following his ordeal. They also initially claimed damages against the teacher, but later withdrew it as he has since died.