The project is meant to empower the women who, after the visit by the club, will be able to grow food from their garden, and even sell some to generate an income. “As a member of the Waterkloof Club of International Inner Wheel, we were required to find a project to sponsor, and I chose Direlang,” said Moitheki Ntseke. And as she sought partnership and sponsors, a friend recommended her to Nestle, who then donated gardening tools and food to sustain the centre. Ntseke, from Sinoville, said the project was specifically to establish a vegetable garden, and the objective was for the garden to be sustainable.  “This can be achieved through the inclusion of educational teaching on how to grow food, introducing water-saving methods that can be used to train children on the value of water like watering with a bucket or watering can instead of a hosepipe.  “The garden also gives us the opportunity to show the children the benefits of having their own garden and learning healthier food choices, and understanding the value chain involved in providing food,” she added. Centre co-ordinator Elizabeth Manamela said the vegetable garden would be of so much help because they would now grow their own food, and then sell some to generate an income.  “We are happy to be the chosen ones maintaining the garden won’t be hard as we were shown ways to sustain it.  "This means we will no longer struggle for vegetables or an income and for that we are very grateful,” she said. Direlang Community Project looks after 304 orphans and vulnerable children including those infected and affected with HIV/Aids.  The aim of the project is to improve the quality of life of those in need of care and support, for people living in poverty, who suffer from HIV/Aids and who are vulnerable or at high risk.  Direlang is also an after-care centre where children go after school for a meal, and to be helped with their homework, and, in addition to being taught on the importance of growing their own food, owning the garden and reaping the rewards, beneficiaries of the centre were taken through aerobics, to put emphasis on living a healthy lifestyle.