Beautifully packaged, the pretty bottles sparkle like the jewels displayed in a jewellery store. Visually and aurally, a visit to a perfume store is a feast for the senses. With shop assistants armed with the latest fragrances all asking, “Would you like to try this new perfume from” the overall experience can be rather overwhelming. How do you filter out all of the distractions and focus on the mission at hand: finding the perfect one for you? Before you even walk into a store to test a perfume you need to know what type you’re looking for. What sort of fragrances or scents are you most attracted to? Are you a sweet and floral kind of girl or more of an oriental and spice woman. Here’s breakdown on the various types of scents.  Floral: If I were asked to describe what romance smells like, I would say it smells like a rose garden in full bloom. Floral scents are sweet and feminine. Roses, jasmine, gardenias and carnations are a few blossoms that make up the bouquet of a floral perfume.  Citrus: If the smell of freshly sliced oranges and a squeeze of lemon juice makes you happy then citrusy perfumes are perfect for you. Lively and energising, these are ideal for during the day.  Spicy: Freshly baked ginger biscuits and crushed cardamom pods is what spicy perfumes smell like. The smells are warm and comforting, like watching your mom baking your favourite treats. A yummy kind of scent.  Oriental: Earthy fragrances like amber and musk are appealing for the woman looking for a sexy, sensual and more exotic perfume. Ideal if you’re looking for a special perfume for date night.  Fruity: These fragrances are sweet, fresh and sometimes spicy. They smell like apples, peaches, berries, watermelons and other deliciously juicy fruits.  Ocean: Usually clear with a clean crisp smell is the best way to describe oceanic fragrances. They evoke scents like a sea breeze, fresh mountain air or clean linen. Great for the woman looking for a more subtle fragrance.  Green: A green fragrance can be described as leafy and earthy. Like freshly cut grass and a walk in the forest. Green fragrances tend to be unisex or for the sporty lady.  Woody: Sweet earthy scents like patchouli, bergamot, oak moss and sandalwood are characteristic of these perfumes. The fragrances tend to have a bit of a masculine edge.  Now that you know what you’re looking for, here’s what to do when you go perfume shopping:  1. Don’t rush it. Set aside enough time to select a fragrance. 2. Before testing a perfume on your skin, spray it on to a test paper. Brands often have paper strips with the names of their various perfumes printed on them. This makes it easy to identify when you get home. 3. One you’ve done the paper test and have found something you like, spray the perfume on your wrist. Then wait. 4. Wait at least half an hour to get a good idea of how the perfume smells on your skin. Everyone’s skin reacts differently to the same perfume. 5. If you’re still not sure about the fragrance, try it in the morning and see how you feel about it as the day goes or how long the fragrance lasts. Don’t hesitate to ask the store assistants for perfume samples. When a new perfume comes on to the market they often have small samples. This is a great way to test the fragrance over a few days.