In an exclusive interview with Independent Media, the ANC presidential hopeful was confident the organisation will do well at the crucial 2019 elections under her leadership. “I believe the ANC will actually win (the elections) even better, because it will be a change and not the continuation of what is there now,” she said. Dlamini Zuma stressed that South Africans knew her track record in government, and that this would boost the ANC’s fortunes under her stewardship. “I’m a cadre who has vast experience in government and the country can say when I’m in government this is what I have done. South Africans will know that I’m very decisive. I don’t sing about things, I act,” she said, adding that while she was committed to consulting, she was also decisive about what needed to be done. Dlamini Zuma’s comments came as factions in the ruling party entered the final push in the battle for the soul of the ANC. At the weekend Dlamini Zuma received the nod to ascend to the party's highest office from the ANC’s second biggest province, Mpumalanga, although many of its branches preferred a “Unity” candidate to unite the party. The North West and the Free State have also thrown their weight behind Dlamini Zuma to take the reins of the ANC, while the Western Cape, Northern Cape and the Eastern Cape prefer Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa. As concerns remained that the conference might collapse, Dlamini Zuma said they had pledged as candidates to ensure the meeting would be a success and its outcomes would be accepted. “Contestations are an exercise of democracy as long as we understand that we are not contesting with enemies, we are contesting with cadres of the organisation, comrades. If we are dealing with comrades, if any of the comrades win I will be there behind them, supporting them and I expect the same. That is why I don’t expect a split occasioned by the conference but I cannot put my head on the block for everyone,” she said. It has emerged that some in Cosatu and the SACP were pushing the two working class formations to club together and contest elections should Dlamini Zuma win the ANC’s presidency. Weighing in on the tripartite alliance relations, Dlamini-Zuma said it would be a tragedy should the SACP choose to go it alone. “It will not help the SACP,  it will subtract from the alliance.There will always be tensions in the alliance, but it should be a healthy tension, so I will do what I can, even if they want to go it alone,” she said. Dlamini Zuma said her being elected ANC leader would not be the reason behind the SACP’s participation in elections, as the party has already contested the by-election in the Metsimaholo local municipality. “It will not be because of me because I’m nowhere, I’m a backbencher in Parliament but they are contesting already,” she said. Yesterday, SACP general secretary Blade Nzimande said their participation in the Metsimaholo polls had sent a strong signal that the party was prepared for elections and that it would refuse to be taken for granted. With a number of presidential hopefuls having made corruption and state capture one of their central themes, Dlamini Zuma defended herself against her perceived silence on state capture. “Corruption, I don’t think it’s enough to sing about it, I believe that you must deal with it. “Maybe I don’t sing enough about it,” she said. Dlamini Zuma said her main preoccupation would be fine-tuning ANC policies for implementation, mainly on education, restructuring of the economy and land reform. She criticised the party’s policies for being broad statements which she said created paralysis in term of implementation. With stalwarts and veterans of the ruling party severely critical of the state of the ANC under its current leadership, Dlamini Zuma it was wrong to air concerns outside of the organisation. “There is no point in going outside to the world and saying the ANC is dying. What do you want the world to do about that? You must fix what you think is wrong,” she said. By late yesterday, Ramaphosa was leading the race in terms of nominations, with 1278 nominations compared to Dlamini Zuma’s 772. But numbers were set to change, as KwaZulu-Natal, the ANC’s biggest province, and Limpopo will hold their provincial general councils today. KZN was expected to support Dlamini Zuma while Limpopo was set to back Ramaphosa.