CAPE Town City boss Benni McCarthy, pictured, has challenged South Africa Football Association (Safa) to improve it level of communication in order to avoid the increasing number of players who are snubbing Bafana Bafana. Recently Thulani Serero made headlines when it emerge that he told Safa that he won’t honour the national call up if he is not guaranteed game time. Serero was unhappy with the fact the he didn’t play against Cape Verde home and away in the World Cup qualifiers. He was also benched against Burkina Faso. The midfield maestro is enjoying his time in The Netherlands with Vitesse where he is getting regular game time. Serero is not the first player to find himself in battle with Safa. Dino Ndlovu and Kamohelo Mokotjo snubbed the national team under Ephraim “Shakes” Mashaba’s tenure. Kermit Erasmus also once told Mashaba that he is not replacement player when he was called to replaced Tokelo Rantie. The all time leading top scorer for Bafana, McCarthy who was criticised in the past for showing the country the middle finger shared his perspective on the current crisis that is facing the national team. “I think people need to sit down with the player, the club that he plays for and our national football governing body (Safa) and come to an agreement or an understanding. They need to discuss the way forward that will benefit club and country and the player. If there’s no communication there’s always going to be the situation where players don’t honour the national team call up and then players are the villains or vice-verse. I think that needs to change,” McCarthy explained. McCarthy didn’t want comment directly on Serero’s scenario. “My issues with Bafana Bafana was my issues with Bafana. I don’t know Serero’s situation. You are journalists, you guys find numbers, you can find numbers and ask him. It is not for me to talk about Bafana, Serero, Stuart Baxter or anybody. My worry is Cape Town City and the problems that I have at the moment,” McCarthy elaborated.