The Buns+Guys 2018 calendar does not exactly sport models in bikinis, but it has all the furry cuteness, combined with hunky men, to last 12 months of the year. The calendar is the brainchild of freelance editor Annica Marincowitz, to raise funds for Bunny Huggers South Africa. The group rescues and rehomes  bunnies in distress. “Before we rehome them we sterilise them and this is expensive,” said Marincowitz. Some of the money also goes towards special projects, such as the veterinarian bills for rabbits that had been abused or bitten by dogs. Pretoria bunny Roly is one such special project. He is at present in foster care in Pretoria North, after he was blinded when someone threw poison in his eyes. He also does not have ears, as these were cut off. Roly now has to have both his eyes removed, which will cost R5000. The calendar project was sparked by the film Calender Girls. “I thought combining a cute bunny with a hunk will be a winning combination, especially as 85% of our about 2500 members are female,” Marincowitz said. The project took about three months to finish and proved to be no easy job. “It was not easy to find good looking guys to pose. Men are simply not keen to pose for the camera.” Marincowitz had to knock on the doors of friends, her hairdresser and even her chiropractitioner. Some of her friends also volunteered the services of their handsome boyfriends. In the end Marincowitz was so tired of looking for willing and able men that in desperation she turned to a professional model agency for two of the pictures - the cover of the calendar, who also is also Mr April. But this was not the end of the problem, as the guys who posed had to have a connection with the bunnies. Making things even more difficult was to find men who had a love, or at least, a connection with rabbits or animals. “You cannot have a person in front of the camera holding a bunny who does not like animals, it simply does not work. There must be a connection.” And the bunnies themselves did not make things any easier. “It took a lot of coaxing with bananas and carrots.” Bunnies are not the best models, as they mostly do not like to be held. But the treats did the trick in the end. Marincowitz, among others, used some of her own bunnies in some of the shoots and her foster bunnies in others.  The end result is a glossy calendar any playboy can be proud of. It sells for R100 apiece, and can be ordered via bunnycalendar2018@gmail.com.