He was addressing a group of people who participated in an anti-crime march on Saturday at Jubilee Park. The march was intended to raise awareness on gender-based violence, drug abuse and human trafficking. It also marked the end of the 16 Days of Activism for No Violence Against Women and Children campaign, commemorated annually from November25 to December10. Kekana said: “Since this financial year started, we have been able to arrest almost 1000 suspects for drugs, and it is a very huge number. Our targets are the addicts because we don’t actually arrest the drug lords as the majority of them are not residing in Sunnyside.” The march was a collaboration between the police and local community. They were joined by a group of bikers, who led marchers as they walked through the streets of Sunnyside carrying placards with messages denouncing abuse and human trafficking. Kekana said the police had a continuous anti-crime operation, which always resulted in the arrests of drug victims. He called on other law-enforcement authorities to help hunt down the drug kingpins. According to him, the majority of  drugs victims ranged from 16 to 19 years old. “We launched an operation to make sure these suspects are brought to book. "The majority of adults are not drug addicts, but our children are the drug addicts,” he said. Kekana also highlighted that drunk driving was among the area's big problems owing to the abundance of liquor outlets. “We have managed to arrest a number of people driving under the influence,” he said. He also warned prospective students not to carry large amounts of money when schools reopen next month. “We are approaching school reopening in January. More students will be carrying large sums of money. Stop carrying a lot of money with you,” he said. Motorists were also warned against theft out of motor vehicles, usually committed by people pretending to be car guards. “The very same people who are suspects are the ones saying 'I am going to guard your car while you go for shopping, or while you go for supper in a restaurant',” he said. Moya Hay of the Salvation Army, who was also there said: “Most of us are really tired of alcohol and drug problems. "We know that this is on the increase - it is definitely getting worse.” She expressed disappointment at the turnout at the event, which also took place last year. “Sadly it is not well supported, which indicates the problem in the area. But if we don’t take a stand and remain silent, I believe we are part of the problem. "Those with a  moral conscience have to be part of the solution. Silence cannot be an option. "It is time we came together and took a stand publicly against drugs, human trafficking, women and child abuse,” Hay said. Ward 81 councillor Godfrey Mulaudzi said tackling crime was not something the police could do on their own. He pleaded with community members to fight against drug use and human trafficking. Mulaudzi also handed over a memorandum to the police, which read in part: “Human trafficking is forcing and manipulating a person against their will into sexual or labour exploitation, within their own country or across borders. "Victims may be forced or coerced to work in farms, hotels, fisheries or restaurants.”