Together with Oliver Tambo, the longest serving president of the ANC, Duma Nokwe managed to rescue the party from what threatened to be its ultimate demise at the watershed conference in Morogoro in Tanzania in 1969. Almost five decades later, Mantashe is grappling with similar challenges of organisational decline, leadership crisis and a general sense of a directionless path in the ranks of his movement. He is on record as confessing that the most difficult task he has had to face as secretary-general is to deal with an organisation whose image is continuously in decline and the worrying level of trust deficit within its own ranks. Ask any bystander about the fortunes of the ANC two decades into democratic rule and they will paint you a picture of a haunted house of greed, corruption and decline in morals and integrity. As the 54th elective conference beckons at  Nasrec, how will Mantashe and his comrades turn around this bad image and emulate Nokwe? How will they rescue the ANC from self-destruction and the leadership crisis it is facing? The first diagnostic question they will have to answer is about how the ANC got to where it is today. It is only through such a diagnostic approach that the organisation will be able to identify its devastating weakness and thus apply the correct medicine to heal its dying self. Unlike the sheepish lot who refused to discuss Mantashe’s diagnostic report at the party's recent policy conference, delegates at the elective conference must take the bull by the horns and face their demons boldly. It is imperative that they understand how and why the ANC continues to self-destruct despite so many red-flag warnings from some of its tried and tested membership, including its veterans whose wise counsel has fallen on deaf ears. Opening the Mafikeng 50th national conference of the ANC, Mandela was the first to diagnose the roots of the evil that engulfs the ANC today. He told the 3000  delegates: “One of (the) negative features is the emergence of careerism within our ranks. Many among our members see their membership of the ANC as a means to advance their personal ambitions to attain positions of power and access to resources for their own individual gratification.” This sums up the evolution of the character of the present-day member of the ANC and the attitude that we have witnessed from party branches since Mandela made this observation. We have witnessed many cases of members of the ANC using their proximity to the leadership of the organisation to influence processes for employment opportunities, tender rigging and other malpractices that tarnish the image of the organisation. We have become accustomed to the type of leaders who are rogue and concerned only with amassing wealth for themselves and their cronies across all sectors where the ANC is influential. In KwaZulu Natal, we have seen how ANC comrades hunt each other down and kill in a frenzy of power struggle and greed for resources. Successive conferences have consistently decried these tendencies but every time they have to implement resolutions to deal with these, they are all found wanting until it’s time for the next elective conference. So the road to Nasrec is paved with these evil misfortunes and it is up to Mantashe and his comrades to whip the ANC into line if they are to regain their lost pride. Many policy analysts and public commentators have been urging the ANC to modernise and dump the archaic model of branches in favour of a direct vote by delegates. One of the reasons for this proposal is the level of manipulation that happens in branches, especially during elective conferences. The phenomenon of vote-buying and delegate manipulation is a direct product of the branch system in the organisational structure of the ANC. One of the other tendencies that have characterised the build-up to ANC elective conferences is the dissident culture perpetuated by those who lose elections at provincial level and the new phenomenon of court challenges. This year, the Eastern Cape provincial “chair festival” conference took the cake as the most chaotic conference of the organisation since its unbanning in 1990. The resort to violence and utter disdain for organisational processes has replicated itself across provinces and become a matter of grave concern for those who respect democratic processes and outcomes. The ANC needs to deal with internal organisational discipline if it is serious about the project of renewal and self-correction. The pervasive scenes of ill-discipline and dissident behaviour that played themselves out across its provinces are a culture that the new leadership must focus on in building the new ANC. Factional tendencies that have manifested themselves within the NEC have also in large measure compromised the ability of national leadership to deal with these thorny issues. There is a lot on the plate of the incoming leaders of the ANC and we are all hopeful that they will step up and restore the integrity of their organisation and the country. In emulating the sterling work of Nokwe and his generation of ANC leaders in exile, Mantashe needs to ensure that the national conference is not a mere talk shop like past conferences. They have a duty to conduct a thorough self-introspection and adopt a programme that will restore the integrity of the ANC as the custodian of people’s aspirations and leader of society. Above all, the leadership to emerge from this conference will quite frankly demonstrate whether the ANC is ready to put South Africa first. Such choices will determine once and for all whether South Africa will vote to keep the ANC in power at the polls come 2019. Tabane is author of Let’s Talk Frankly and host of Power Perspective on Power987.