The 16-year-old walked away with R35000 cash after participating in what is the country’s only piano competition for players younger than 19.  The hotly contested competition had three rounds, adjudicated by well-known experts Professor Malcolm Nay, John Roos, Professor Joseph Stanford and Bernarda Vorster.  “The final round saw nine extraordinarily talented young pianists competing against each other,” hosts Atterbury Property said. The judges applauded his tremendous talent and dedication, which they said saw him take the top honours from among 46 piano peers from across the country. Last year Nel came third overall. And when, in addition, special prizes were awarded to the best pieces in different styles, the Brooklyn teenager won the best Baroque piece as well as the best romantic and best modern pieces, making a statement that he was there to win. When the Pretoria News went to see him at his family home in Brooklyn, Nel played William Bolcom’s The Serpent’s Kiss, which he said was one which best described him, as it was one of his many favourites.  He said he also played it before the judges at the piano competition on stage. With his eyes closed and hitting the high notes, his fingers moved at a fast pace while he played Bolcom’s piece with such effortlessness, showing technique and art. The St Alban’s College pupil said he was only 8 years old when he learnt his first note. With his grandmother a piano teacher and his mother playing the piano there was no way he could escape the “calling” to play music. “I was and still am very excited because I have entered the competition for the past eight consecutive years. I didn’t expect this and I was surprised but very happy that all my hard work had not gone unnoticed,” he said.  “I practise for two hours a day in the house; it is loud but no one complains as they know it is my passion,” he added. Practising two hours every day sometimes weighed on him, he said, because he had sport practices at school and home chores to do. But to make sure he was on top of his game he practised by going to piano lessons every week and his teacher kept track of his progress by telling him where improve and what to practise. To relax and for entertainment, his sister and he both played to their parents, with Louis on the piano and his sister playing the flute. Nel said he loved playing the piano but did not think it was something he would turn into a career. He would one day like to see himself in a career that had to do with maths, but would never stop playing the piano.