The traders were expected to relocate from a trading space earmarked for a section of the mall after the delivery of containers, in accordance with a February court order. Last month, the traders approached the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, in a bid to force the developers - Isibonelo Property Services -and the City of Tshwane to comply with the order. The court ruled that Isibonelo and the City provide informal traders with 20 containers by the end of November. Traders’ legal representative Louise du Plessis, of  Lawyers for Human Rights, said both the City and developers had so far flouted the court order by not supplying sufficient containers to the informal traders. Du Plessis said only 16 containers were delivered and not the 20 as stated in the court order. “Furthermore, no additional containers to those 16 were delivered within the subsequent weeks as stated in the court order,” she said. Du Plessis threatened to go back to court to force Isibonelo and the City to deliver the remaining 
containers. She said: “Both Isibonelo and the City have failed to comply fully with the order with regard to the supply and delivery of containers.They have failed to comply at all with the other clauses of the court order once again. “Their conduct not only demonstrates they do not care of the compromised position they have placed the traders in, traders who worked hard to make a modest honest income, but also demonstrates a flagrant disregard  of the court and disrespect of the judiciary.” Isibonelo chief executive Shadrack Mthethwa, on the other hand, said the ongoing fight between his company and informal traders had been turned into a joke. Mthethwa said the company complied with the court order by supplying traders with 25 containers, which were more than what the court ordered. He said the statement that his company had failed to comply with court orders was irresponsible. “It is an irresponsible statement. If you represent people you need evidence. We have proof that we delivered 25 containers and invoices of the purchase. I don’t know if they have proof of what they say,” he said. Mthethwa said there was no way his company would have contravened the court order as a business entity. “We even wrote an e-mail to them, saying we have complied with the court order. They were delivered in three consecutive days. “Yes, we have delivered 25 container even before the date cited by the court. We have delivered more than what the court has said.” But Du Plessis said: “We will thus continue with trial for a contempt order at which point the chief executive of Isibonelo, the mayor and the city manager will have an opportunity to explain to the court why they think court orders can be ignored.”