As other businesses closed, Christiansen doubled down on wood, starting a company that manufactured stepladders, ironing boards and an entirely new product line: wooden toys. He called the company Lego. The name derived from the Danish words “leg” and “godt”, meaning play and well. Though Lego’s first toys were simple yo-yos, trucks and ducks on wheels, the company would eventually become one of the most respected brands in the world, alongside Apple and Nike, never mind Mattel or Hasbro.  With its connectible plastic bricks, Lego came to reflect the evolution of childhood imagination around the world, a remarkable feat given that its founder didn’t have much schooling. But now that childhood playtime is rapidly shifting to screens, Lego is trying to hold on to Christiansen’s legacy. The task is enormous. This month, after revenue dropped 5%, Lego laid off 1400 employees,  8% of its 18200-strong global workforce. Another toy Goliath, Toys R Us, has just announced it will file for bankruptcy, though it promised its 1600 stores would remain open. The famous retailer struggled to compete with Walmart, Target and online giant Amazon. Even in its earliest days in the 1930s, Lego faced intense challenges, according to David C Robertson, author of Brick by Brick, a 2013 history of Lego. Christiansen, a widower, ran the business on his own, while raising four sons during the Great Depression and later, the German invasion of Denmark.  He got some help from one of his sons, though: Godtfred Kirk Christiansen, who had been building toy models for the company as a teenager, became a Lego manager in 1940.  But two years later, the factory suffered a fire, which destroyed Lego’s entire inventory and its blueprints for new toys. Christiansen nearly ended his gambit, according to Robertson, but soldiered on. By the late 1940s, Lego finally produced what it called “automated binding bricks”, a precursor to the bricks of today.  Ole and Godtfred grew interested in them from British inventor Hilary Fisher Page’s plastic, stackable cubes with two rows of four studs. The Christiansens modified the size of the bricks, sharpening the edges. The only problem was that they weren’t all that sturdy and children hadn’t yet embraced plastic toys. By 1953, the “automatic” pieces got a formal, new name: Lego Bricks. But the bricks were selling poorly, Robertson wrote. They didn’t snap to each other very well. Then, in January 1958, Lego obtained a patent for an idea it had been working on for years: a stud-and-tube design that allowed kids to snap the bricks together without them coming apart. The new system gave children the chance to build something sturdy, without it wobbling, or coming undone. Lego made sure new bricks were always compatible with old ones. That same year, the company’s founder died. Godtfred took over. But it was the bricks that really built the company. Lego executives, observing how children played with their products, realised the firm’s future success was not about the brick, but what the brick could create: buildings, streets, cities, all filled with people, vehicles and street signs.  “You can go on and on, building. You never get tired of Lego,” one of its publicity campaigns said. “Decades before the rise of ‘value webs’ and Apple’s ‘brand ecosystem’ of i-centered offerings, Lego took a holistic view of its product family, with the ubiquitous brick as the touchstone,” wrote Robertson, a senior lecturer at MIT’s business school. Lego began inventing items that, in hindsight, are incredible to think of as innovations: in the 1960s, the company’s bricksmiths invented the wheel, a round brick with a rubber tyre. The Lego wheel earned its own patent application.  Then, it launched Duplo, its line of bigger bricks for pre-schoolers. In 1968, the first Legoland theme park opened in Billund, Denmark. Lego was trying to be its own kind of Everything Store or Everything Toy. The 1970s saw even bigger successes: miniature figures to populate the towns kids were building. Then castles to evoke a medieval world of knights and royalty. Astronauts followed.  And the family leadership continued to reign: Kjeld Kirk Kristiansen, Godtfred’s son, took over in the late 1970s and would remain at the helm for years. After the last of Lego’s patents for its interlocking bricks expired in the late 1980s, the company faced a raft of upstarts seeking to cash in on the brick craze. Still, Lego customers knew the real deal from the fakes.  By the early 1990s, Lego experienced double-digit growth in sales, while the rest of the toy industry’s increase hovered around 4%. Lego controlled nearly 80% of the toy construction market. Its big success came in the late 1990s. Lucasfilm was about to release the first of a prequel trilogy to the original Star Wars movies. And Lego was debating whether to partner with the company to licence a set of toys.  Astonishingly, Lego executives initially baulked, partly a result of the company’s fierce independence. It also fretted about aligning itself with any violence. The company surveyed parents, who didn’t mind the partnership, so it pushed ahead. Its Phantom Menace Lego Star Wars product line killed, comprising more than 15% of the company’s sales. And it wasn’t long until Lego rolled out Harry Potter sets of Legos. Yet, Lego found itself on the brink of bankruptcy. In late 2003, sales sank by 30% compared with the year before. Lego was introducing too many product lines, without putting enough attention on its original, core business, Robertson wrote. There were Lego dolls, even a Lego kids’ clothing line. Toy retailers began complaining to Lego that the firm didn’t provide enough inventory of one of the few best-selling items - the Bionicle Legos, set in a science fantasy world.  The company had also become too reliant on Star Wars and Harry Potter movies, and during the years those films weren’t released, revenue dropped.  The media reported Lego might be sold. One Lego executive even had a discussion with Mattel about acquiring the bruised brand, according to Robertson.  In 2004, the tenure of Kjeld Kirk Kristiansen - grandson of the founder - ended. But he remains the majority shareholder of the holding company that owns Lego. Eventually, Lego trimmed. It shut down several of its theme parks and killed off poor-performing lines. One of Lego’s newest offerings, now available is an $800 (R10900) Star Wars Millennium Falcon. In the box: More than 7000 bricks. - The Washington Post