St Alban's Cathedral in Pretoria was packed to the brim yesterday as people from all walks of life came together to hail the man who made deep inroads in the law towards paving a better life for people, especially the poor. Among those who was there was former judge Mabel Jansen, who has not been seen much in public since she resigned from the judiciary. While everyone was still reeling from Jansen's sudden death a week ago and still very much mourning his loss, the day was all about paying tribute to a man who had fought injustice on behalf of the poor and marginalised. The 53-year-old Jansen died in Limpopo where he was doing what he loved most - consulting with a rural community about their land reform problems. Friend and colleague, Pretoria attorney Kgaugelo Baloyi, said Jansen would always be remembered as a champion for land reform and land restitution issues. “He mainly handled all the big problematic cases and we all sought advice from him. “His loss was extensive and the rural communities are reeling. They are asking who else is going to assist them the way he did.” Baloyi said Jansen did not care about money. “Money was not an issue to him. He always said 'bring it on. Let's help the poor people’. He carried all the load himself.  He always strove to save the poor people.” Baloyi said Jansen was the one who used to push land reform matters in the Constitutional Court. He said that over and above leaving a huge legacy behind, “Jansen also leaves us with case law and precedent-setting judgments for those left to continue his legacy.” To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  Judge Jody Kollapen, former commissioner of the South African Human Rights Commission and former Lawyer for Human Rights director, said Jansen was deeply committed to justice. This did not come as a result of him being part of Lawyers for Human Rights; it was something in his DNA, Judge Kollapen said. Jansen had passion and had devoted himself to fighting for the abolition of the death penalty. Judge Kollapen said that while Jansen knew the law posed some constraints, he never tired in his quest to find justice. “He lived life to the fullest and I am proud to have called him my friend,” he said. Deputy Minister of Co-operative Governance, Andries Nel, a long-time friend of Jansen's, described how he worked tirelessly and mostly for free during the moratorium on the death penalty to save the more than 350 inmates who were destined for the gallows. Jansen often drew up submissions throughout the night in this regard, where others would not take on these last-minute cases. One of the first cases brought before court to fight for antiretrovirals to be given to prisoners, was brought by Jansen. Nel said Jansen was not only a brilliant legal mind, but loved his country and its people. Professor Lesiba Matsuang, who represented the Mamahule Community, said a person of Jansen’s calibre would be difficult to replace. Communities had totally trusted him with their land issues and because of Jansen they had made strides in this regard. “You fought a good fight. You finished the race. “May you rest in peace,” Matsuang said. Jansen leaves his wife Mariana and two sons, Rudolph and Gustav.