In a exclusive interview with the Pretoria News, he spoke at length about his political report which captured the performance of his administration this year and assessed areas his cabinet needed improve on. Makhura expressed optimism with regard to a partnership his administration had forged with business to create more jobs. However, he was cautious that the good plans could be dealt a huge blow “if there was political uncertainty”. “It is for that reason that I say the ANC needs to give South Africa the leadership that South Africans deserve,” he said. He stressed that the country’s economy had to grow in a way that was transformative and inclusive. The provincial government was working with at least 40 companies in its endeavour to grow the economy and create employment, he said. “In our report we say our economy needs to grow by at least 5.4% in Gauteng for us to be able to address unemployment in a big way.”  Makhura highlighted that young people needed to be big players in the economy. However, he bemoaned the fact that most young people were short of the skills required in the technological sector. He said the schooling system did not produce enough of the industry-based skills. To address the deficiency, he said most companies had opted to offer training in the field of technology. “An economic model that leaves out the youth is disastrous. We need an economy that gives young people opportunities,” he said. There were challenges stemming from the national economy, which included the economic downgrades and which impacted on the provincial economy. “Despite all those problems we are still able to attract to our province direct foreign investment.” The good news, according to Makhura, was that there were 252 companies from the province that had 169 projects worth R350billion of investments on the continent. “Gauteng business doing business on the continent has increased dramatically. When South African business does good on the continent it is good for intra-Africa trade. They created 45000 jobs on the continent and also here at home.” Also playing a major role in the economy growth was the Business Process Outsourcing or call centres, which had to be reactivated in the province. “The call centre companies have moved largely to the Western Cape. We want to get some of these call centres back in Gauteng. Just in one year the sector has been able to create the largest number of jobs in one year - 6000,” he said. The Hammanskraal Business Process Outsourcing project, which is under construction, will be operational next year.  “When it comes on stream, it is going to create 1000 new jobs in its first phase. When it is completed it will be 3000 jobs.” Last week, Makhura visited a company manufacturing optic fibre cables in Watloo. He said the company would train 1000 young people. “Even if there are no ready-made skills for those young people, we will go to neighbouring places; in Mamelodi we are preparing for 1000. We will find them and train them in the shortest space of time. When those jobs are available next year, young people will be available,” he said. One of his biggest regrets of the year were the deaths of 143 psychiatric patients after a decision was made by the health authorities to move them from Life Esidimeni to illegal and ill-equipped non-governmental organisations.  “The key issue for us is that there needs to be accountability and answerability. I am one of those people who not only seeks answers but also makes himself available for accountability,” he said. He said his administration had set up a team of experts “to help us make sure this disaster that cost so many lives never happens again”. He also said the scourge of crime was disappointingly high. “There are 40 police stations in Gauteng that account for most of the crime. If we can reduce crime by 50% in those 40 stations, the crime rate will come down by 50%,” he said. Makhura expressed concern about farm murders, gender-based violence, robberies and business hijackings. “We are looking at a partnership with the minister of police and the provincial police commissioner. Metro police can’t just focus on traffic management. They need to be part of the anti-crime operations where the crime rate is high.”