He holds two B Tech degrees from Tshwane University of Technology, in language practice and journalism, and is now pursuing a master's. This policeman lives and breathes fitness and shows other police officers how fitness can be achieved.  1. Are you originally from the capital city? I am originally from a village called Bokgaga, about 30km outside Tzaneen in Limpopo. I came to Pretoria in 2003 as a 17-year-old to go study at the then Technikon Pretoria (now Tshwane University of Technology). I stayed in Mamelodi for 14 years and only moved to Andeon, adjacent to Booysens, in April 2016.  2. What do you like most about the city? I love the scenic views when I am running at Fort Klapperkop Nature Reserve and equally do the mesmerising sights of the capital as I come through from Tom Jenkins Drive and turn into Government Avenue on my way to the Union Buildings. Also, the view of Rietfontein when
I am on top of Tom Jenkins hill.
I may just as well be running the city, so to speak,  because I mostly run without music to ensure I take in the beauty of the city, and the smell and sounds of nature.  3. Where do you hang out or go for fun? I live quite a boring life. My weekends look like this: I wake up just before 5am to go to a race around Pretoria - there is a race in Pretoria every Saturday. After that I go back to my house in Andeon and take a one-hour-long bath, sleep for three to four hours, then work on my MA  in journalism I'm doing with Stellenbosch University. On Sundays if I am not at the Mamelodi Baptist Church for my spiritual upliftment and reconnecting with God, I am either doing a long run with a group of fellow runners or I am in my house doing laundry and cooking
up a storm for the entire week.Every once in a while I like having a good meal at the Baobab eatery in Menlyn.  4. What things would you change if you were mayor? I would firstly ensure that residents in squatter camps who came to the city for economic opportunities have decent water and sanitation. I would also incentivise those who opt for solar geysers by means of subsidies to ensure we relieve pressure from our electrical grid. Moreover, I'd ensure the courtesy accorded affluent suburbs are also accorded to those in the townships and squatter camps - when I stayed in Mamelodi, we had potholes for months on end. But now that I've moved to Andeon, a pothole does not last more than two weeks.  5. What is your job and does it satisfy you? I am a media researcher and analyst for the SAPS. I am partly satisfied with my job, but as someone who is unapologetic about fairness, equality and equity, I think I missed my calling of being a human rights lawyer as I'm unrelenting in my pursuit of equal treatment for all.  6. What do you think are the advantages of living in the city? The biggest advantage is being closer to economic, lifestyle and leisurely activity opportunities.
I can choose which of the four
Virgin Active gyms I'd like to go to on any given day. When one has a job interview in Pretoria or Joburg, you do not have to stress about spending lots of money travelling a long distance. I love the opportunities that come with being in a city such as this.  7. If you would move away from the city, where would you go? Having left my hometown when I was only 17 years old, and now that I am 32, I honestly do not see myself in any other city other than the capital. This city has become my second home. I can advise anyone on how to navigate around the city even in my sleep.  8. Which sports teams do you support? I do not take defeat or failure very well. As such, I have resolved not to affiliate to any sporting teams. The only sporting code that has captivated me fully is running. When I couldn’t complete my third Comrades this year due to an injury, I took it quite personally and cried myself to sleep for more than a month. I had invested everything in training for Comrades, so when I got cut off at Cato Ridge, which is about 60km into the race, I was inconsolable.  9. Are there any people in the city who you look up to or who have shaped your life in any way? I wouldn’t really pinpoint a specific person per se. I am 
inspired by certain traits in various people and particular events in my lifetime and history books. I look
at everything, take what I believe will build me as a person and then create a better version of myself out of that. 10. What mode of transport do you use and is it convenient? I mostly drive to work but some of the time I run to and from work. I’m hoping that in the new year I can use my car for a wardrobe change and drive to the nearest gym for a quick shower just before work. I stay about 22km from my workplace so I find running home or to work is most prudent, efficient, and good not only for my health and fitness ambitions but for the environment too. When the schools are open it takes me about 90 minutes to get to the office thanks to traffic congestion, but running to the office only takes me two hours. Imagine if only 10% of the population in the city ran to work or home For me running is the most convenient.