Petrus Mthombeni’s passion for policing and helping others inspired him to join the Tshwane Metro Police Department. He shunned other lucrative careers that could have earned him a six-figure pay package and instead opted to be a law enforcement officer. Unlike others, he was squeaky clean - a policeman to the core - who refused to have his palms greased by errant motorists and steadfastly ignored the temptation of receiving bank notes for “ya cold drink” - a euphemism for bribe. Mthombeni took his oath seriously and remained loyal to his calling, until his last breath. While Mthombeni was out and about manning traffic, he noticed a speeding motorist and signalled him to stop. The motorist ignored his order and ran him over - killing him instantly. While others are looking forward to the festive period, Maria Mthombeni, and many other families of cops who lost their loved ones and those that still have their loved ones serving in various police departments dread this period. A close colleague recently relayed a dreadful and emotional episode about how she lost her brother who was a dedicated and committed police officer. Her brother was killed 20 years ago, and to this day, the family’s pain is still fresh. It feels as if the brutal death happened yesterday. My colleague is a very interesting raconteur who occasionally makes us burst with bouts of laughter, but her description of the loss of her dear brother can pierce the heart of even a stubborn man who subscribes to the adage “tigers don’t cry”. “My brother, the first police officer in my family, was loved by all of us. I was born after him. We were very close and when he died, it was as if a part of me had died with him. I was depressed, felt helpless and robbed of someone very precious. Even today, when I attend a police officer’s funeral, my eyes are filled with tears. “His only daughter was only a year and two days old on the day of his funeral, and his fiancée was only 21. Life became hell for them, as their dreams got shattered by this death. He was their hope and they looked up to him”. Her heart-wrenching story is echoed by thousands of people. Killing a person who sacrifices his life to protect you is the most barbaric thing. Our metro police officers make sure that our vehicles are roadworthy, man the roadblocks to remove the menaces from our roads - and they do it for our own safety, but the very people who are being protected kill them. What a shame! Our nation has a responsibility to stop these killings. We as a nation rely on our own abilities rather than the ability of the Maker. There is nothing God cannot do and there is power in unity. The book of 2 Chronicles 7:14 confirms this: “If my people who are called by my name humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways, then I will hear from heaven, will forgive their sin and will heal their land.” South Africans are notorious for causing immeasurable pain and suffering to the widows, children, parents, siblings and colleagues of slain cops. South Africa, wake up and protect your law enforcement officers! We are fast becoming a lawless and disobedient society that disrespects our law enforcement officers who risk their lives to protect you and I. The recent video clip that circulated on social media of a Johannesburg Metro Police Department officer being lynched by a mob of supposed “Christians” sent a chill down one’s spine and was a clear demonstration of the lower depths of moral depravity to which we have sunk. It is incumbent upon members of the public to value the right to life and right to human dignity in ensuring that law enforcement officers execute their duties without intimidation, threat or hindrance. Let us strive to be law-abiding citizens 24/7, 365 days, not only in October which is “Transport Month”, according to the government calendar, which tends to be a once-off campaign month championed by the national Transport Department. Let us renew our morals and pledge to respect our law enforcement officers, starting this festive season. When you are flagged down to stop, obey their rules; when you break rules of the road learn to accept a fine issued to you, learn to comply when you are stopped to be frisked or your vehicle to be searched, for these officers are constitutionally empowered to enforce law and order, without fear or favour. We can’t countenance the senseless killings of our police officers. They have to stop now or we will degenerate into a banana republic. *  Bokaba is executive director: strategic communication in the City of Tshwane.