Motupa has been one of the shinning stars in the Absa Premiership so far this season and has already scored five goals. He was loaned out at the start of the season after spending most of his time on the Buccaneers bench last season. Despite the striker’s good vein of form at Baroka, Pirates administrative manager Floyd Mbele denied they were kicking themselves for not having kept him in their squad. “It is not a mistake. You can’t use the word mistake because we have loaned players before. We’ve loaned Thabo Rakhale to Polokwane City and Thembinkosi Lorch to Chippa United. It was a conscious decision by the club. The main reason to loan players is for them to gain confidence and get game time,” Mbele elaborated. But Pirates have struggled for goals and have a measly 10 from 14 matches with Thamsanqa Gabuza their top scorer with three strikes. Asked if they will be tempted to bring Motupa back to try and solve their scoring problem, Mbele responded: “That will depend on the coach. I can say I want to bring him back only to find out that the coach has a different view. I cannot pre-empt what will happen. Next week we will have a meeting with the technical team where we will review the first round and discuss our plans going forward.” Pirates were very busy in the June transfer window. They signed Musa Nyatama, Wayne Sandilands, Justin Shong. They also brought back Justice Chabalala and Innocent Maele who were on loan at Chippa United and Thanda Royal Zulu respectively last season. “The January transfer window is a very tricky window. It is willing seller, willing buyer transfer period. But as a club we are always looking and if there’s something interesting available we will look at it. We will wait for the recommendation of the technical team next week,” Mbele elaborated. Pirates are away at Goble Park to take on Free State Stars in an Absa Premiership match early Saturday evening (kickoff 6pm). Meanwhile, this time last week, Ajax Cape Town Academy graduate Sirigo Kammies did not know that he would be making PSL debut. Kammies has battled tirelessly in trying to break into the first team and hard work and dedication finally paid dividends for the 19-year-old as Stanley Menzo gave him his dues in an Absa Premeirship clash away to Bidvest Wits, last Wednesday. “I didn’t know that I was going to play and when the coach informed me that I will not be going to Zambia for the Cosafa Cup I was a bit upset because I was positive that I’d play, and be in the starting 11 there,” Kammies admitted. “But, then when we went on camp (in Johannesburg), the coach announced the team and I must admit that I was shocked to be included from the onset against Bidvest Wits. I didn’t expect it to happen and at the time I was very nervous. “It was going to be my first game. But after my team-mates spoke to me and told me that they will have my back - talk me through the match and not have a go at me, but encourage me instead - I felt calm. For me, personally, I felt good. For the first time in a long time, it felt like I had a really good match.” Born in Elsies River, a mere 10 minute drive from Ikamva, Kammies has had to overcome numerous difficulties to be where he finds himself today. “A lot of the players, like Brandon Petersen, encouraged me a lot. “Every day at training I work hard and away from the pitch I remain focused. I never relax, I just keep on going. - additional reporting by ANA