SFSA 2017 will be held on Thursday and Friday at the CSIR Convention Centre under the theme “Igniting Conversations about Science”.  The conference is set to stimulate a vibrant debate on the role of science, technology and innovation in society; and create a networking platform for key science, technology and innovation actors, including senior government leaders, academics, researchers, industry, civil society, and students. Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa will deliver the keynote address at the summit, championed by Minister of Science and Technology Naledi Pandor. This third summit has grown to be among the premier science gatherings in Africa. Some of the luminaries to lead the conversation include Dr Susan Desmond-Hellmann from the Bill and  Melinda Gates Foundation; Professor Romain Murenzi from The World Academy of Science; Andiswa Mlisa of the South African National Space Agency; and Dr Fisseha Mekuria from the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research. The highlight of SFSA 2017 will again be the Science in the Square events which give experts, panellists and delegates the ideal opportunity to share their knowledge, passion and expertise for science with members of the public.  Church Square in Pretoria and selected townships in Joburg will be turned into a hive of scientific engagement, learning and discussions. There will also be engaging exhibitions from over 70 companies and agencies drawn from the wide spectrum of the science ecosystem across Africa and the world.  SFSA 2017 will have three plenary panel discussions, 39 parallel panel discussions and 32 science talks.  There will be more than 260 speakers, 120 of them from outside South Africa. The crowning glory will be the 2017 Science Forum South Africa Diplomacy Awards. “Over the past three years, SFSA has been growing in stature and in the number of experts from across the globe who participate in this unique forum for much-needed interaction, knowledge sharing and co-operation between the scientific community and society at large on the most burning issues of science.  “We welcome delegates to South Africa for robust engagement on the use of science for sustainable global development and how science contributes to opening new paths for the improvement of human life and business innovation,” said Pandor. “Science has a cross-cutting impact in all sectors of the economy and human life.  “These include health, agriculture, trade and industry, infrastructure, environment, and ICT. Sharing ideas and discussing solutions on the latest developments in science, technology and research will help all of us achieve sustainable livelihoods.  “We look forward to a successful SFSA 2017 and the opportunity to showcase the achievements of South Africa, and greater Africa in promoting science, technology, research and innovation.” SFSA 2017 will include themes such as “Preparing people for the knowledge economy”, “Open science and open innovation for Africa’s development”, “Science transforming society” and “Innovation shaping the industry of tomorrow”. SFSA 2017 will be preceded by the 3rd Global Forum on National Advisory Councils at the same venue.  This is a meeting of the top officials of councils or equivalent institutions that provide strategic advice on Science, Technology and Innovation (STI) to the highest public and private level in their countries of origin.  The forum is a platform to share best practice and seek strategies for guiding national STI policy. 