SAPS spokesperson Matsobane Mabusela said this was because there was no suspect in the matter. “Yes, the case was indeed opened, but it is closed for now. The reason is that the suspect cannot be traced.” Mabusela said the investigations would resume as soon as there was a suspect to be linked with the alleged crime. “The investigating officer stated the complainant claimed he went to the supermarket first. It wasn't immediately at the pay-point that he noticed he had fake money. In view of this, the suspect cannot be identified or traced,” he said.    Seema, 63, said all he was told was that the case was closed because money came in bundles and there was no way it could have been tampered with.  He had opened the case at Rosslyn police station in October, and said at the time that officers confirmed the money was fake.  The Soshanguve resident claimed he was given R1680 at the Kopanong Hall Extension 4 pay-point, of which only R80 was original.  Seema said he had now given up on the matter. “I still want my money, but have given up because no one is willing to assist me. Police phoned me to let me know that the case was dismissed.” Sassa kept its promise of giving him food parcels, but he said this was not enough, and he had debts incurred during October.  “I was given food, but it wasn't enough and some of the stuff was missing. I was owing a lot of people money which I only finished paying now,” he said. Recalling the day of the incident, the father of four said he realised he had been given fake R100 notes when he and his teenage son went to buy groceries.  Seema said that before he had gone to the supermarket he bought vegetables near the pay-point, giving the seller R100 and receiving change without encountering any problem. According to Sassa, at least five similar cases were under investigation from the same area since the beginning of the year. Sassa spokesperson Nandi Mosia advised grant recipients to never leave a  pay-point if they realised they had been given fake money because it became hard to tell later on. Mosia added that if the money was found to be fake at the till point, the person would be assisted immediately.  She said they also urged elderly people not to allow anyone at the pay-point to count their money. Sassa also warned beneficiaries not to fall for an SMS scam targeting elderly people.  “Beneficiaries have received a fake SMS from people inviting them to enter a Christmas competition,” it said. “They are then asked to send their ID numbers, Sassa card number and PIN.”