The Miss South Africa Organisation expects a record number of entries for the 2018 pageant following Nel-Peters bagging the Miss Universe crown last week. A record number of entries is predicted for the Miss SA 2018 pageant as registrations pour in. The new title holder will be crowned in May at the pageant’s diamond jubilee to be held at Sun International’s new flagship Time Square Sun Arena in Pretoria. Last week Adé van Heerden took over the duties of Miss SA. In just three years, the organisation has managed to revitalise a pageant that had lost its spark for many South Africans. But now, having nabbed two international titles - with Rolene Strauss winning the Miss World title in 2014 - the pageant is starting to have relevance again in the country. “The year 2017 has been an exceptional year for the Miss South Africa brand and next year is destined to be as exciting," said Sun International spokesperson Claudia Henkel. "We are delighted with what has been achieved in the past three years. Having two international winners, the team behind Miss South Africa is passionate, motivated and eager to embrace what 2018 holds for the brand,” she said. Cell C spokesperson Suzette van der Merwe said the cellphone giant was invested in the pageant and came on board to restore its historical glamour. “Three years ago when we came on board as headline sponsor our aim was to restore the pageant’s historical glamour and prestige and to make Miss South Africa relevant and a recognisable household name in South Africa. "For us, Miss South Africa is more than a title or a sponsorship, it’s a programme that complements our focus of empowering young women everywhere to achieve their dreams by providing a platform to inspire, influence, lead by example and make a difference.” Since 2014, 18 finalists have taken up the opportunity to intern and seven have become full time employees at Cell C. “These young women are eager to learn and acquire new skills.  They all start at entry level positions and are expected to work their way up the corporate ladder like any other employee of Cell C. They have excelled and fitted in well with the young, vibrant culture of Cell C." Those wishing to enter must register their details online to receive an entry form. This document must not be submitted beforehand but rather brought to the regional competition which takes place during the Miss South Africa nationwide roadshows in 2018. These will be held in Durban (February 24 and 25); Port Elizabeth (March 3 and 4); Cape Town (March 17 and 18) and Johannesburg (April 7 and 8). Entrants must be aged between 20 (at the time of entry) and 27 (turning 27 in the year of their reign). Contestants will present themselves to the judges and participate in two rounds of judging. All regional contestants will then be assessed and a Top 12 will be announced on May 3, 2018. Registration for those wishing to enter Miss South Africa 2018 is open on the Miss South Africa website www.misssa.co.za The winner will take the crown and more than R2million worth of prizes.