He was speaking yesterday at the official opening of the two-day Science Forum South Africa held at the CSIR in Pretoria. “Young people must see themselves as agents of development, working to define the urban environment expanding transport networks and building new and more sustainable human settlements,” Ramaphosa said. He emphasised the importance of enabling young people to play a part in future science undertakings both in the country and the continent. “In a rapidly changing global economy, our economy must invest in the development of young scientists to reap the economic and social benefits of the fourth industrial revolution." He also singled out challenges such as the poverty facing young people, saying they should never be allowed to become stumbling blocks to their science projects. He said the conference’s theme “Igniting conversation about Science” had raised “a call to action to make science work for the benefit of society”.    Calling on countries to work together in science, technology and innovation industry, he said: “No country or research group can work or succeed alone.  "Expertise needs to be shared.” On the role of Africa in technological developments, Ramaphosa said: “Africans should not only be consumers of technology that will be yielded by the revolution that is upon us, but they should also be developers and managers of innovation and invention.” The annual science conference, which attracted more than 2000 participants, will conclude today. Minister of Science and Technology Naledi Pandor said the conference would enable delegates to participate in 70 parallel sessions about different science topics. Pandor said its purpose was to promote international collaboration and showcase African science to the world. “We believe that it is through collaboration that science will strengthen and that science will not only become stronger in Africa but globally, (and) that groundbreaking research will be enabled,” she said. The conference was also aimed at altering the stereotypical attitudes towards Africa when it came to science matters, she said. “We want to change the way they talk about us, about the tremendous contribution African science makes towards global science,” Pandor said. She stressed the need to profile African countries as reliable partners of choice for scientific corporations.  “Science is an integral part of Africa’s development agenda and we are committed as the Department of Science and Technology to playing a part in contributing to developing our continent's capacity through science and technology,” she said. Communications Minister Mmamoloko Kubayi-Ngubane urged journalists to report science subjects in a way that everyone could understand.   She said: “Journalists can also play a greater and meaningful role in ensuring that citizens have greater access to information and science discoveries and science in general. “As you are writing our stories in this field, part of the responsibility is to be able to translate them in such a way that everybody can understand.” Professor Sarah Anyang Agbor, AU commissioner for human resources, science and technology, made a clarion call to international stakeholders in science to impart their knowledge to their African counterparts. “Our international stakeholders should please hold our hands and teach us best practices,” she said. Agbor asked participants to continue with conversations on science matters beyond the conference. Participants acknowledged the importance of using science to create Africa’s growth and development. They suggested that scientists should come up with solutions to problems such as inequality, water shortages, poverty and infrastructural challenges. Dr Alfred Madigele, Botswana’s Minister of Tertiary Education, Science and Technology, said that governments needed to invest in infrastructure that was related to science. 