The hi-tech facility was launched recently in Ratlou, 70km north-west of Mahikeng. The life-changing innovative centre is stationed at the core of the community where health services were previously inaccessible to its 2000villagers. The opening of the “Lesego Digital Village” was attended by hundreds of excited people whose lives will be changed. The clinic consists of three consulting rooms, which offer mother-and-child health services, an ultra-sound scanner, blood analysis, immunisation and vaccination services, an X-ray department with a Samsung digital X-ray machine for general radiology services, a reception area, a dispensary, ablution facilities, a kitchenette, an outside waiting area, a guardhouse, as well as a hybrid solar power plant. In addition, a smart classroom for community health-care worker training is kitted out with 40 tablets, an interactive e-board and a printer. A learning centre is being developed in Kraaipan and Taletso FET College in Mahikeng has agreed to partner with Samsung and the Ratlou Municipality to present accredited courses. In the spirit of “skilling the youth for entrepreneurship and employability”, Samsung has offered courses to two groups of 20 young men and women.  The first group of 20 received training in cellphone repairs and the second group were trained in electronic waste management, which includes recognising electronic waste and how to go about extracting and selling what is valuable. Speaking at the launch of the Lesego Digital Village, Sung Yoon, the chief executive of Samsung Electronics South Africa, said he was confident that this initiative would have a positive impact on the community. “At Samsung, we believe in creating innovative products and services that make a positive impact on people’s lives and I am confident this initiative will make a significant difference in this community,” Sung said. Samsung also established a solar-powered health centre in Ga-Moabane as well as an engineering academy at Mogwase, east of Sun City.  The academy specialises in skills training in refrigeration, air conditioning and electronics.  Samsung also donated air conditioners and domestic appliances to the Thari Mmelegi Orphanage at Monakato, which houses more than 60 children. Ratlou residents said they were grateful for the digital village and were looking forward to using the life-enhancing facilities and technology.