She died at the National Hospital in Bloemfontein, Free State. “We are heartbroken to share and confirm the news that Tshegofatso Michelle Molatlou has passed away,” said her friend Lebo Keswa on behalf of the family. The 44-year-old mother of two was described as a humble, wonderful, loving and a good friend to many and someone with a caring spirit. “She had drawn inspiration from different people and situations to be the person she was. She was a hard worker and very passionate about charity work and absolutely loved working with the youth,” Keswa said. “As the last Miss Black SA, Michelle courageously challenged the stereotypes on beauty queens. She went on to become an actress and has among others acted in Generations, Kgatelo Pelo, In the Name of Love and Mokgonyana Matswale and was a presenter for Mamepe. “She then went to corporate and worked for Simeka/Graphicor and Mortimer Harvey before she started her own successful catering company. Michelle was loved and respected by many,” said Keswa. The family said while they mourned their loss, they also celebrate Molatlou’s “remarkable life and hope that it serves as an example to young people around the world to work hard to make their dreams come true, to be willing to explore and push the limits, and to selflessly serve a cause greater than themselves”. “For those who may ask what they can do to honour Michelle, the family has a simple request: honour her example of selflessness, service, accomplishment and humility. The next time you walk outside on a clear night and see the moon smiling down at you, think of Michelle and give her a wink while speaking words of courage declaring life to lifeless situations. “Michelle was a fighter and she fought till the end. Even in her last days she would give words of wisdom to her own family and friends about how to never give up in life. Even in her darkest hour she always saw light at the end of the tunnel,” said family spokesperson Kgosi Monye. Molatlou is survived by her father, mother, two sons, a brother and a sister. Ndileka Mandela took to Facebook and wrote: “It is with a heavy heart that I share with you the news of a loss of a dear friend Michelle Molatlou. She succumbed to cervical cancer. Just spoke to her father to get permission from him to send this post. “She will be laid to rest in her hometown Bloemfontein. May her soul rest in peace. Death do not be proud.” She did not respond to requests for additional comment. Loretta Ledwaba commented on one of Keswa’s Facebook statuses: “Rest in peace dear sister-in-law. Your love was just amazing! So heart broken MmaMojapelo. The Mojapelos learnt a lot from you among others your love and care!!!!@!We will always miss you.” (sic) @vho_mlindos wrote on Twitter: “RIP Michelle Molatlou. I used to love that lady back in her beauty queen and TV days. I was happy to see her on TV, recently, acting in a Mzansi Magic Movie and she was still as beautiful.” Funeral details will be announced later.