Fourie yesterday lashed out at Ramokgopa for trying to “absolve his administration of the utter mess he left behind in the City”. During a media briefing at Sammy Marks Council Chamber, Ramokgopa had denied that his administration left a R2billion deficit for the City. Instead, he said the ANC municipality left a R640million surplus.  Ramokgopa had also ridiculed the drive to employ 23000 people as part of the Expanded Public Works Programme (EPWP) programme by the DA-led administration. He said under his administration, 65000 EPWP workers were employed in the 2010/11 financial year. But Fourie said: “The claim that the ANC left the City with a surplus of R640m is a feeble attempt to absolve themselves of any responsibility. It is indicative of just how much the ANC in Tshwane has lost the plot." Instead of using his briefing to take responsibility for his administration of the City and its coffers, she said, Ramokgopa elected to twist the truth. “In so doing, he lost all credibility and sunk to new depths,” Fourie said. The operating deficit - excluding the capital grants and subsidies - for the last year under the ANC administration, was R2.141bn, she said. “Sputla also side-steps the fact that the Peu smart meter contract into which he entered, was entirely unlawful. "This was flagged by ourselves (the DA) and the Auditor-General and earlier this year confirmed by the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, to be manifestly unlawful from the outset,” she said. Ramokgopa had said the court only confirmed what the ANC had done in 2015 by terminating the contract with Peu Capital Partners.  He said he would ask the public protector to investigate the maladministration and mismanagement of funds by the DA-led administration that robbed the poor by introducing taxes which had no justification. However, Fourie said the statements made were without basis and in some instances a deliberate misrepresentation of the facts. “Ironically, it is the former ANC administration’s time in office that  has been characterised by gross financial mismanagement, maladministration and total disregard for constitutional and legal dictates. “Executive mayor Solly Msimanga's  administration has, from the very outset, been vocal and transparent about the state of affairs we inherited from the previous administration - with particular respect to the City’s finances with which we have now made significant positive progress. “Claims that the DA-led multi-party administration has driven the City to dire financial straits is a lie. In fact, the former ANC administration left the City in financial chaos.”  Fourie said the statement also illustrated that the former mayor clearly did not understand how to read his own annual financial statements. “He does not know or understand that grants and subsidies earmarked for the funding of capital projects have to be accounted for as revenue whereas the corresponding expenditure are not reflected in the statement of financial performance.”   These included unauthorised expenditure created by some contracts such as Watchman Services (R121.9 m), refuse removal  (R111.7m), fleet contract (R92.8m), legal services (R78.9m) and overall overspending of budgets across the board ranging from overtime and forensic audits to others, Fourie said. The previous administration entered into these costly contracts knowing full well that they were not properly funded, she said. “That the former mayor and regional chair of the ANC in Tshwane seeks to advance the claim that the budget is not in favour of the poor is bizarre.  "The DA-led multi-party administration’s budget was the first to be passed unanimously in 17 years. "If they felt it was anti-poor they had an opportunity to vote against it, yet they did not," she said. “They supported the budget because they know that it is a pro-poor budget that seeks to make meaningful transformation to the lives of the people of the city. “On this front too they have not a shred of credibility.  "We welcome the threat that the ANC looks to approach the public protector and the courts on these matters. This will make public every last detail on the mess they created.”  On EPWP, she said, that during the election campaign and in government, the DA recognised that work opportunities for the people was critical to rebuilding the capital city.  “To this end we took the EPWP Recruitment Framework policy to the council. It voted in favour of it and against the long-standing corruption and cronyism that characterised the system under the previous administration. That is a fact.  "The passing of this EPWP recruitment policy framework would ensure that the City employed workers on a temporary or contract basis. The intention was to transfer skills while at the same time providing the much needed income. “This is after the programme was marred by nepotism and cronyism. "Some appointments were even made on the basis of political affiliation,” Fourie said. Pretoria News