JAMES MAHLOKWANE
james.mahlokwane@inl.co.za Nearly four thousands dogs have received vaccinations for rabies across Tshwane, said Chief Animal Technician, Ali Makgatho.  Makgatho led a team of animal health technicians and students in Soshanguve where they administered free vaccinations to dogs and cats.  He said the campaign was an initiative of the Gauteng Department of Health to target disadvantaged areas where pet owners did not have affordable access to pet clinics.  "Every dog or cat must get vaccinated once a year to keep them healthy. The vaccination doesn't just help the pets It also helps people because rabies can be transferred from pets to humans through saliva. That's why it's extremely important that animals in these communities are also vaccinated. Rabies can kill a human being within 10 days. If a dog that has the virus bites you, the virus can travel to your brain and you can lose control of your mind."  He said fewer cats were brought to be vaccinated but he believed it was because most cats were stray animals in these communities.  He said people in these communities showed they had knowledge of rabies and understood the importance of the vaccinations, courtesy of numerous awareness campaigns by Gauteng health.  "We go to schools and parks to talk to people about rabies. Right now we travel street by street with our vehicles to spread the message. We encourage people to bring their pets to get vaccinated. I must say I am happy with the turnout. More people are seeing the importance of these campaigns."  Pet owner Joyce Ndlanya said she already brought her dogs for vaccination and would encourage others to do the same. She visited the animal health technicians to enquire if she needed to bring her dogs for another vaccine but was told she also needed to bring them once a year.  Technician John Manganyi applauded Ndlanya and said people like her showed they took responsibility for their dogs.  He said: "It is important for people to vaccinate their dogs and receive a certificate so that if the dog bites someone, you can prove that your dog was vaccinated. You can avoid a law suite or a case with the police by just simply making use of this free service,"  Makgatho said people who lived in the townships found the free vaccinations useful because some of them were unemployed and depended on meagre social grants. He said these people could not afford the services of private pet clinics and hospitals.  Pet owner Gontse Mabunda brought her three-month-old dog for vaccination. She said she heard about the vaccine from the technicians as they travelled the streets of Soshanguve.  "My little sister was bitten by a dog once. We ended up making numerous visits to hospital and I wouldn't want to put anyone in that situation. I also don't want that headache and guilt." The campaign has already reached townships such as Mamelodi, Atteridgeville, Soshanguve, Garankuwa, Bronkhorstspruit and would head to Hammanskraal next.  People who were bitten by dogs were urged to visit their nearest clinic or hospital and be specific about the cause of the wounds so that they get the appropriate treatment.