It states that social cohesion, linked to nation-building, should be directed towards the practical actualisation of democracy in South Africa. But, with our past so rooted in prejudice, discrimination and exclusion, is social cohesion, reconciliation and nation-building possible? This was the prickly theme addressed at a panel discussion organised by the Public Relations Institute of Southern Africa at Freedom Park, in the heart of the //hapo interpretative centre where the South African story is told. Speakers included media personalities Khathu Mamaila and Given Mkhari, academic Ralph Mathekga and social activist Yusuf Abramjee. Mamaila kicked off with a frank talk in which he said South Africans, to maintain the façade of “Madiba’s children”, were not being truthful to one another. The concept of reconciliation in South Africa was “choreographed” to say to black people “let bygones be bygones black people should embrace white people, and white people should embrace black people”. But, he said, the material conditions of the majority had not changed. “How can we reconcile when we have not addressed issues such as wealth distribution?” he asked. “It is like saying to blacks who were not allowed to come to the dinner table because it was an all-white affair, that now you are welcome on one condition. You can come and make small talk, smile, but you are not allowed to eat the food.” Rather than be obsessed with social cohesion, the focus should be on attaining social justice as reconciliation would come naturally between people with common interests, Mamaila said. “What kind of social intercourse can happen between a farmer and a farmworker?” he asked. “But, if both were farmers then they would come together to talk about issues that affected them both as farmers.” Mathekga was in agreement with Mamaila, and said talk about social cohesion and nation-building frustrated him, as South Africans used the topic to avoid talking about more primary issues, such as poverty and inequality. “Most of the time, when one comes across people raising the issue of social cohesion, it is when it is not there - its absence,” he said. “The term we should be looking at is social contract,” he suggested, “and what the basis for such a “social contract” in the post 1994 era should be.” He said one did not see such debates over social cohesion in rich nations without the type of inequality which exists in poor ones, so the issue of the economy, the stake one had in the nation, and the willingness (or unwillingness) to work together to a common goal were factors in achieving social cohesion. Abramjee said South Africa was a divided nation, driven by a lack of progress, poor political leadership, corruption and crime. But, being negative and complaining on social media would not take the country forward, he said. He felt social cohesion could play an important role as “the glue” the country needed. He stressed the need to tackle racism as a priority, and for South Africans to be patriotic; to “roll up their sleeves” and get to work as there was much to be done. Mkhari disagreed, picking up on Mamaila’s theme that one could not simply tell people they share a flag and “are now brothers and sisters, love each other”. He said he would like phrases like “social cohesion” banned, because one could not tell people to be socially cohesive. To build a nation one needed a foundation of a nation, not simply a group of people living in the same country. The transition from 1994 had been that, a transition and not a destination, and democracy had been built on a lie, he said. While one could understand and forgive those who negotiated democracy in the interests of expediency, he could not accept that his generation had “settled in a transitional mode”, something the youth were now challenging through their activism. “After years of emotional, physical, material, spiritual rape of a people, nobody is yet to take responsibility (for apartheid),” he said, as “nobody voted for, supported, or had been tried for apartheid”. Referring to the media, and the role of ethical journalism, Mamaila said had it not been for ethical journalism, many scandals would have remained hidden from the public. He said if South Africa was serious about fighting corruption, it should invest in ethical journalism. Mathekga said the biggest weakness of the local media was a lack of perspective. “There is something wrong if you are in a nation, and read four newspapers on a day which all say the same thing,” he said, noting that when he was called for comment by foreign media he could engage for half an hour whereas local journalists wanted a “sound bite”. He said there was a need for diversity in the media, while Mkhari called on those in politics, civil society, media and business to have the balls to face up to “the lies of our democracy”. Bojé is editor of the Pretoria News