City have become the first team to win 14 consecutive English top-flight games in the same season. Their victory ended United’s run of 40 home games unbeaten in all competitions. City went ahead in the 43rd minute when Romelu Lukaku was unable to clear Kevin De Bruyne’s inswinging corner and the ball fell to David Silva, who was played onside by Ashley Young. The Spaniard gratefully hooked the ball home. Poor defending at the other end allowed United to get level before the break. Marcos Rojo hit a hopeful diagonal cross into the City box but Nicolas Otamendi misjudged a header, Fabian Delph hesitated and Marcus Rashford pounced on the loose ball and drove low past Ederson. Nine minutes after the interval, City grabbed the winner when Silva whipped in a free-kick into the box and Lukaku drove an attempted clearance into the back of team mate Chris Smalling. The ball looped to Otamendi who volleyed home on the half-turn. City had keeper Ederson to thank for the three points after he produced a superb double save at close range six minutes from the end to keep out efforts from Lukaku and Juan Mata. Meanwhile, Everton captain Wayne Rooney scored for the first time in a Merseyside derby with a late penalty to take an unlikely point in a 1-1 draw against Liverpool at Anfield. With the snow swirling, Rooney sent the 77th-minute spot kick straight down the middle after Dominic Calvert-Lewin went down following a push in the back by Croatian defender Dejan Lovren. Mohamed Salah had earlier fired Liverpool ahead with a 42nd-minute stunner that sent the Egyptian clear of Tottenham’s England striker Harry Kane as the league’s top marksman with 13 goals this season. Elsewhere, second half substitute Olivier Giroud rescued Arsenal with a late equaliser in a 1-1 draw at St Mary’s after Southampton had looked like holding on for all three points. The France international scored two minutes from fulltime with a glancing header off an Alexis Sanchez cross. Southampton had made Arsenal sweat until then with Charlie Austin grabbing a fourth goal from his last three league starts with a third-minute shot past Petr Cech after being fed through by Dusan Tadic. If the draw remained a lost opportunity for the Gunners, the goal at least staved off a second successive league defeat after a stinging 3-1 loss to Manchester United at the Emirates last weekend. “Last week had an influence on today’s game,” Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger said. “They wanted to start strong but it took us time to get into the game again,” added the manager, who criticised the amount of time-wasting in the match. “I think he (Giroud) has come back into a very good shape, he’s shown that today again. He’s mentally extremely strong as well. It’s a remarkable achievement what he has done again today.” Arsenal moved up to fifth place. Southampton moved up to 10th, ahead of Huddersfield Town and Everton. “We started really well, got the goal. Should have got the second really,” said Austin, who had a low shot from the right well saved by Cech minutes after scoring. “Against Arsenal, you give them one chance and the big man’s come on and scored. It’s just one of those things...we take away a point from here but we should have taken all three.” Austin also hit the post with another effort in the eighth minute with the Arsenal defence in disarray but the linesman flagging for offside. Arsenal worked their way back, picking up the tempo as Southampton were forced on the defensive but without giving home goalkeeper Fraser Forster much to worry about. Southampton were still dangerous against the run of play, however, with Spanish defensive midfielder Oriol Romeu firing in a long-range shot that smacked the crossbar in the 62nd. Arsenal took off defender Per Mertesacker shortly afterwards, bringing on Danny Welbeck to add firepower, but Southampton could still feel unlucky not to increase their advantage. Ryan Bertrand had a golden opportunity when he shook off Arsenal defender Laurent Koscielny, but lofted the ball high over Cech, while Austin saw another opportunity trickle past the post. - Reuters