By Tuesday, the party’s branches had largely spoken and its provincial structures had consolidated the branch delegates’ voting preferences. The lie of the land seemed clear. Yet, on close dissection, it’s evident that developments could still subvert what appeared to be definitive trends in branch nominations. Less than two weeks prior to ballots being cast at the Nasrec Expo Centre in Joburg, the contest is closer than both the Polokwane race of 2007 (when Jacob Zuma beat Thabo Mbeki) and 2012 in Mangaung (when Zuma beat then deputy Kgalema Motlanthe). The branch nominations have confirmed that the two leading candidates for the ANC presidency are Cyril Ramaphosa and Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma.  While Ramaphosa has a lead, the intricacies of the election process caution against early celebrations: there are black holes that could devour the advantages he appears to have. Voters at the ANC conferences comprise roughly of 90% delegates from ANC branches across the nine provinces. Provinces have been allocated a total of 4731 delegates (proportionately in terms of membership figures). 509 The rest of some 5240 voting delegates come from the ANC’s national executive committee and top six officials (roughly 90 in total); the nine provincial executive committees (27 each, thus 243); and the Women’s, Youth and Veterans’ leagues (60 each, thus 180). The number of branches that had endorsed Ramaphosa by Monday were 1860 and Dlamini Zuma 1333. A total of 3193 for both candidates, or nearly 2000 fewer than the total number of conference voters. Given that the race will go down to the wire and that a few hundred ballots in either direction could make a world of difference to the ANC and South Africa, this analysis dissects eight black holes that account for the approximately 2000 “discrepancy”. At the core, the uncertainties that make up the eight black holes are: The scores released by the ANC’s provincial general councils have a “margin of error”. This is because the scores are of branches and not individual delegates. But big branches send more than one delegate and are given more weighting in the voting. This can substantially change the balance between leading candidates come the election. Mpumalanga brings its own black box of 223 “unity” votes. The biggest bloc of branches refused to endorse a particular candidate and entered “unity” on nomination forms, following the instruction of provincial leader David Mabuza.  These votes can therefore go to either leading candidate should the delegates cast their vote rather than waste it. A further uncertainty comes in the exact number of branches that have missed the deadline for their branch general meetings. The deadline for convening these was a week ago. Missing the deadline means they have missed the opportunity to be represented at the conference. The ANC, in an interview with this writer, estimated that between 95 and 98% had made the target date. Exclusions will lower the number of delegates. A number of branches are caught up in disputes. Challenges centre on the lack of legality of the branch general meetings, some of which have been chaotic. Some battled to reach quorums (50% of members had to be present), or they faked quorums. In other instances, officials disappeared with meeting materials and membership lists; attendance registers were signed off-site; or bickering and fist-fights ruled. These branch delegates could still make it into the voting booths at the conference if the ANC task teams resolve the disputes. A number of branches and provincial structures have taken their disputes to court. Prominent cases are in KwaZulu-Natal, Free State and the Eastern Cape. The national conference does not ultimately depend on the provincial structures, but provincial leaders may have influenced their branch-based underlings substantially, or covered up irregularities that affected whom the branches nominated. Disputes at the time of the  conference could exclude some from voting, or having their votes counted. The ballots of individual delegates are secret and it’s therefore uncertain to what extent branch nominations will convert into matching votes. Earlier conference outcomes show that the branch or provincial counts tended to hold: delegates are inclined to vote according to their mandates. But political times have changed. Beyond the scrutiny of the superiors and away from branch commissars, delegates might vote according to conscience. Hand-in-hand with individual discretion in voting is the practice of “brown envelopes”, or bribes. Speculation is that bribes could be enormously persuasive, going into six-figure rewards for the right vote. The final big uncertainty comes via the three leagues - for women, youth and veterans - and the ANC’s executive structures.  The large block of about 90 NEC and top-six votes, for example, could split relatively equally between the big candidates. It is this block that has kept Zuma in power through a series of votes in the national executive committee and interventions in parliamentary votes. But they could by now see that the writing is on the wall given that Zuma will cede his position as head of the party in two weeks and his post as head of state in 2019. The battle lines are drawn and the result is close. Exact calculations will remain impossible; the result is likely to be known by December 17 or 18. In the interim, all South Africans can do is rely on circumstantial evidence, including signs of confidence or panic in the ranks of the candidates. -The Conversation *  Booysen is professor in the Wits School of Governance.