RAPULA MOATSHE Science, innovation and technology can play a critical role in terms of creation of jobs and inclusive economic growth, said key industry players. Experts affiliated to the Global Forum of National Advisory Councils deliberated on how science can solve socio-economic problems during a two-day summit at the CSIR on Tuesday. In attendance were delegates from across the world, who included policymakers, academics, politicians and government officials. The event took place ahead of this year's Science Forum South Africa, which starts on Thursday. Deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa is expected to address delegates during the summit opening. Participants at the conference encouraged everyone to play a role in seeking solutions to socio-economic problems by using science and technology. 
    To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video
   This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  Big companies were reminded that they bore responsibilities to embrace marginalised groups in different societies into their science and technology system. Delegates highlighted the importance to assist women and youth to participate in the science and technology industry. They urged key industry players to create a condusive environment for them to participate in the sector. Phil Mjwara, Department of Science and Technology director-general, said: "The youth entrepreneurial programme that we have is not designed to do innovation for the youth, but to provide a space for them." Mjwara took part in a panel discussion under the theme "innovation for inclusive and sustainable socio-economic development".  He emphasised the importance of putting in place certain policies with a view to addressing the country's historical legacies. "How do we deal with the problem of traditional law in South Africa in a context of democracy and modern society that unfortunately in this country has to co-exist? It is a big problem in South Africa. I don't think we have integrated the traditional way in which people live into the mainstream,"he said. Mjwara said the department championed a programme called innovation for inclusive development, which looked at development for the improvement of quality of life. The programme was also concerned about the integration of innovation into local economies.