The research, released on World Aids Day on Friday, was conducted by the university’s faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences. It said that while it may have been known that many people with HIV experienced negative cognitive symptoms, such as depression and forgetfulness, it was unclear whether it was as a result of the patients’ physical illness or the direct effect the virus had on the brain. The research team used a functional magnetic resonance imaging brain scan, depicting how blood flew to certain parts of the brain while performing certain tasks or experiencing certain emotions. Through this, the team compared the brain activity of people with HIV and those without the virus, in particular those who had not yet started on antiretroviral treatment. Dr Stéfan du Plessis said it was found that participants had a decreased blood flow in the striatal region of the brain while performing tasks involving higher motor functions. They also observed little action and blood flow to the nucleus accumbens brain region of HIV-positive patients performing a task involving a monetary reward. This is the section of the brain involved with motivation, apathy and enthusiasm for life. Du Plessis explained: “The scans show how the HIV affects important parts of the brain involved with motivation. “We theorise that this could happen to such an extent that patients are often simply not motivated enough to take their medication, or even get out of bed.” The researchers also discovered a link between the levels of atrophy and brain functional impairment - showing the thinner the actual frontal lobe was the lower the levels of function. “The study highlights a previously unknown functional effect that HIV has on the brain,” Du Plessis said. “We hope that these results will stimulate further studies to test the effects of ARVs, or other interventions, that could improve brain function and therefore the lives and well-being of patients with HIV.” Earlier studies were said to have shown that up to 50% of people with HIV may suffer from some form of cognitive impairment, ranging from subtle impairment detectable only through sophisticated cognitive tests, to severe psychosis. Before the introduction of ARV treatment, many patients developed severe HIV-related dementia. However, on introduction, ARVs markedly improved the symptoms of dementia in HIV-positive people. The South African Depression and Anxiety Group highlighted the fact that the mental health problems associated with HIV/Aids are often not considered. In a statement, the organisation detailed how infected individuals were likely to experience depression, anxiety, panic or even suicidal thoughts. Psychologist Zamo Mbele said: “HIV/Aids affects body and mind, and we often ignore the effect on the latter. We need to give enough focus to the effects on a person’s emotions and thoughts. With HIV/Aids, keeping the body healthy is as important as keeping the mind healthy.”