Mokoena, who lives in Kanyamazane in Nelspruit, had to travel to Scotland to receive her new robotic left hand. Mokoena is one of eight siblings and a mother of two boys. She describes herself as a happy person who is down-to-earth and a go-getter. Life hasn’t been all rosy for Mokoena. On September, 24, 2010, she was involved in a car accident where she lost all the fingers on her left hand. Yet, despite the traumatic accident, she surprised those around her by conquering all the challenges she faced. Moreover, Mokoena remained positive and continued life with a grateful attitude, thankful that she survived. “From a young age I wanted to relocate to Pretoria. “After the accident my prayers were answered,” she says recounting that she moved to the capital city in July, 2011. While in Pretoria, she worked for the national Department of Agriculture, Forest and Fisheries before moving to Tshwane where she met her friend and colleague, who has since died. “He was the one who told me about Jaco Deist from Deist & Associates Prosthetic Centre,” she says. Mokoena says that meeting Deist was “truly a blessing” as he understood her needs and the fact that she was not interested in having a cosmetic hand but one that would actually function. She was able to explain her needs to him earlier this year. “That’s when he wrote a letter to Road Accident Fund asking for approval and explaining to them what type of hand I needed, and that a robotic hand would be useful to me. A case manager from the RAF was assigned and she came to do her own inspection and recommendation. “I was approved without knowing that I would actually have to go to Scotland for my bionic hand. The day Jaco told me I was speechless and excited about the journey,” Mokoena says. After her meeting with Deist, Mokoena began researching prosthetics and what it would mean to have a bionic hand. On November 12 she travelled with Deist to Scotland where she was able to test her new hand. “The first time I used the bionic hand I was over the moon with joy. It took us a day to find the signal,” she says and explains the process of learning to use the hand was cumbersome. According to Deist, Mokoena is the first South African to receive a bionic hand replacement for a partial-hand amputee. “Bionic or myoelectric prostheses have been available to upper-limb amputees for many years. But in most cases when a partial-hand amputation is performed there is little that can be done after the fact, other than providing a cosmetic or non-functional prosthesis to the amputee,” he says. Deist maintains that challenges with partial-hand prosthesis is in the digits; moving the digits independently is tricky and in most instances, amputees only have the ability to open and close the hand. During the process, the first step for Mkoena was to determine if she had the necessary signals to control such a hand. Sensors were placed on her residual limb and then connected to a test hand. She had to perform small muscle movements in a specific area so that the sensors could pick up the electrical impulses from her stump. These signals are what allow her to open or close the hand. The next step involved a silicone impression of her residual limb, created so as to manufacture the prosthetic hand that would fit over her amputated limb. “Just knowing that I can do different things with my new hand made me so happy. I fell in love with my bionic hand instantly.” Deist also mentions that Mokoena’s new bionic arm mimics a real hand with the fingers moving individually. The hand, he says, has 36 different positions and ground-breaking technology is apparent in the amazing gesture control. “A simple up or down or sideways movement will set the hand in a pre-programmed position. The amputee is also provided with Bluetooth grip chips that make it possible to change to a specific grip. “ While Mokoena looks forward to leading the best life she can and raising her sons, she reflects on how grateful she is: “Our journey to Scotland was a beautiful success. I’m so happy with my new hand and am thankful to all the people who helped me.” - Health-e News.