Today, and in fact, all of the past week I was thinking of Ntate Moses Maluleka, a colleague and one of the longest-serving employees of the company I work for. He is not in any managerial position. However, over the past two years of being around him, I realised that Ntate is one of the most influential people in my life at work. Often in life, and especially at workplaces, we seek acknowledgement of people who are senior to us according to rank. We are inclined to impress them. We believe that our conduct and work ethic will make an impression and, one day, that will land us a promotion. Nothing wrong with that. Nevertheless, there is the other side of who we are as employees. We go through trying times as people. We face difficulties with our families or loved ones. Sometimes we are weighed down and a little bit discouraged by the vicissitudes of life. But with pick-me-ups from older and wiser people who have seen most of life and lived through the worst, like Ntate Maluleka, it becomes so much easier to keep going and pushing on. Ntate Maluleka always cheers me up. I hardly have the chance to speak my home language, XiTsonga, but when I am with him, I enjoy a full-on conversation in that awesome language. We are often told that we need to leave our personal businesses at home when we enter the workplace. But sometimes it is not easy to just leave a part of who you are like that. Some personal challenges walk through the office doors with us. They bug you persistently as you try to ignore them and focus on the bread-and-butter job. In some of those instances, your professionalism may be threatened. Your mind is so preoccupied with the issues of the child at school, the wedding happening at the weekend, funeral arrangements, the money we failed to send to our parents or siblings or even issues with the partner. Ntate at times does not have to say much to make me feel better. He is not a man of many words if he doesn’t know you personally, but one of his trademarks is his cup of rooibos or coffee, brought to you always filled with a cheer-up aroma. I have realised that he is part of a huge community of similar people at various workplaces. Whenever I mention him at family gatherings, braais with friends or even at corporate events, I hear similar stories. I have heard stories from people who got the best advice from the security guards at their workplaces. Some people’s relationships were saved by the wisdom of the cleaning ladies. Even at homes, the helpers and gardeners have salvaged mother and daughter, father and son or daughter and father relationships with their wisdom and sound judgement of situations. There is more to a place of work than going to do what we are hired to do. We make friends that go beyond the office space. Some people even find love and marriage, and those relationships should never be restricted to the people who are on the same level as you or of the same skin colour or the same age group. Ntate Maluleka embodies humility, hope, love and strength. I remember the words of my English lecturer at the Tshwane University of Technology, Mr Van Wyk: “The three or four years you spend here at TUT should not just be about you graduating with a Diploma or B-Tech in journalism. You should graduate in other fields that the university does not acknowledge formally. “Graduate in hospitality, loving others, compassion, spirituality, self-awareness, self-love and other fields that make you a complete human being.” I believe his words transcend the university lifestyle. They are a mantra that should be applied in workplaces too. I strive to build relationships with everyone I see daily because for me, the greatest lessons in life are not the skills that can be acquired at a workplace. The best and most priceless gifts in life are the people who help shape your character traits and make you a better person. To you, Ntate Maluleka, and the many people out there who play similar roles in my life and the lives of so many other people, thank you for all you have done to help model men into better young men and citizens. You have been a pastor to me when I needed one. You have become a father to me when the son in me needs one. You are more than a colleague who serves me tea or coffee. Such people in our lives are hardly shown appreciation. Today I express my gratitude to you. Nha Khensa Tatane! Chabalala is the founder of the Young Men Movement. 
E-mail, kabelo03chabalala@gmail.com; Twitter, @KabeloJay; Facebook, 
Kabelo Chabalala