Provincial senior health adviser Dr Asomugha Chika said since the beginning of the year, Steve Biko Academic Hospital has attended to 15 listeriosis cases, with four resulting in deaths, including the recent death of a pregnant women from the Moot. Sonette Clack, 34, was taken to Steve Biko last week Friday, with suspected meningitis. She was then diagnosed with listeriosis, and died on Saturday evening. Listeriosis is a foodborne disease that recently broke out nationally and has hit Gauteng the hardest. It affects mainly pregnant women, newborns, the elderly, and adults with impaired immune systems. Healthy adults and children sometimes are infected with the L. monocytogenes bacteria, but they rarely become seriously ill. Babies can be born with listeriosis if their mothers ate contaminated food during pregnancy. The national Health Department issued a warning of the outbreak last week, with Health Minister Dr Aaron Motsoaledi saying 557 cases had been detected this year.  Of those, 36 deaths were recorded in the past 11 months. Health officials said cases had been reported in Gauteng, KwaZulu-Natal and the Western Cape. The Western Cape had the second-most reported cases (71) followed by KwaZulu-Natal with 37 cases. “Most cases (62%) have been in Gauteng” said Motsoaledi. “The only way to prevent this is if people follow the the five keys which include keeping clean by washing hands before handling food; separating raw and cooked food; cooking food, especially meat, poultry, egg and seafood thoroughly; keeping food at safe temperatures and using safe water and raw materials.” Listeriosis is associated with eating food contaminated with Listeria monocytogenes including dairy products and produce fresh vegetables and fruit as well as ready-to-eat products. After infection the incubation period can be between three and 70 days. Symptoms include fever, muscle aches, and sometimes nausea or diarrhoea. If infection spreads to the nervous system, headaches, a stiff neck, confusion, loss of balance, or convulsions can occur.