JAMES MAHLOKWANE
james.mahlokwane@inl.co.za Executive mayor Solly Msimanga invited the media and stakeholders to witness the transparency and fairness of the lottery recruitment process of 3232 workers of the Expanded Public Works Programme (EPWP). The event was streamed live on social media as it showcased the hiring process consistent with the EPWP Recruitment Framework Policy passed in Council on September 28 this year. The showcase followed a city-wide recruitment drive led by Msimanga, which saw 120 683 Tshwane residents register their names on the city’s central database, in hope of securing employment. This was just the first phase of the recruitment process which sought to put the 3232 people to work as early as the first week of January. These first names were selected between the city’s region one and seven and at least 20 000 could expect to be recruited next year. “We had to make a commitment to run this programme as fair and transparent as we can. We are doing this now because we want to see that these people start working by the first week of January,” The mayor was happy that as the programme would be rolled out next year, people would also be recruited in their respective wards for ward based projects to avoid protests. He said those protests often erupted when people felt like other people were gifted employment opportunities that were in their backyards. Msimanga said the open process was done in full view of the media and auditors so that people understood that the hiring process was free from political interference and prejudice. He said the DA led administration heard stories of public service programmes being used to benefit certain people at the exclusion of others; and this process sought to eliminate such a possibility. He said the system was audited closely by a team of city auditors led by Chief Auditor Executive Moeketsi Ntsimane. He said he and other officials could not touch nor use the system. He sat back and watched as the few authorised personnel demonstrated the random recruitment process. Moeketsi said: “One of the elements of good governance in the selection processes of workers where public funds are involved is ensuring that the process followed the principles of the city and the law. It is very important to ensure that the guidelines of the constitution are entertained in this kind of process and ours right now is to do exactly that,” He said auditors were aware of negative public perceptions created by the public’s previous experiences but his team would ensure that all recruitment processes complied with the law of the country and ensured fairness, accuracy and transparency. The first phase of the recruitment process randomly produced 862 names from region one, 550 names from region two, 720 names from region three, 280 names from region four, 110 names from region five, 600 names from region six and 110 names from region seven.