JAMES MAHLOKWANE In celebration of International Human Rights Day, the University of Pretoria unveiled an OR Tambo bust at the university's OR Tambo Law Library today. The bust was first unveiled in 2004 in the institution's art museum by former president Thabo Mbeki. The university felt it was best to have the bust placed in the Law Library named after Olivier Tambo, to put knowledge seekers closer to the bust of the iconic freedom fighter.  The unveiling was attended by numerous ambassadors, global human rights activists, the chief executive of the Olivier and Adelaide Tambo Foundation Linda Vilakazi and freedom struggle icon Justice Albie Sachs.  Sachs is a freedom activist who served under Tambo's leadership in exile in the fight for the emancipation of black people from the oppressive apartheid regime.  He was simultaneously launching the book, Olivier Tambo's Dream, a book featuring a rare photo of a younger Tambo. In the book, he wrote about the years he spent working under Tambo's leadership in exile preparing for post apartheid constitutional order and the extreme crises that were overcome during the post 1990 constitution-making process to arrive at the country we have today. 
    To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video
   This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.   He said: "Tambo was a good listener, a good leader and he was always the last one to talk. He would reintegrate every point raised so everyone could see they were heard. I am confident that today he would not want to be seen as an icon. He was not an icon to us but a friend who always urged others to be critical and challenge what was unjust."  He said activists who fought for the current constitution did not do it to have people kneel before them or to be constantly worshipped for their involvement in the struggle for emancipation. He said activists wanted to achieve a South Africa that was fair, just and equal as Tambo envisioned.   He encouraged people to stick together to move this country forward in the right direction. "Law and leadership is not just about order and rules but human beings connecting," he added.  The university's Dean of Faculty of Law, Prof Andre Boraine, said: "the university was proud to have named a library after Tambo because many years ago it would have been unthinkable due to apartheid."  Chief Executive of the Olivier and Adelaide Tambo Foundation Linda Vilakazi said: "I am one of the people who have never met OR Tambo but I read and sang about him. I believe I am privileged to serve his legacy and I cannot see myself doing something else. We celebrate his legacy and through such partnerships we extend his legacy. I hope a lot of people go and buy the book by Sachs so they could understand what OR Tambo stood for."