During a press briefing at his house in Dainfern yesterday, the family revealed that Malinga had been battling with the illness since June. Last year the family said he had been diagnosed with anaemia.  The legendary artist, producer and songwriter lost his battle with stage four pancreatic cancer on Christmas Day. Family spokesperson and brother Bheki Malinga said they found out about his brother’s illness earlier this year. Malinga said: “Robbie had pancreatic cancer. By the time the family found out which was this year in June it was stage four. So you can imagine. “The sickness actually paralysed him because he couldn’t walk nor move anymore. During the last days he couldn’t even speak clearly,” he said.  Universal Music manager Kenny Tlale said the record label was honoured to be a part of the 47-year-old producer’s life especially because he was passionate about the music and developing young artists.  “He was a bridge between the young generation and older generation and could accommodate both. He gave it his all,” said Tlale.  Robbie’s latest album was self-titled and introduced collaborations with a number of unknown young artists.  Tlale said that during Robbie’s illness, the label was accommodative to the fact that the music producer was ill and made sure that he was well rested. TS Records executive and close friend to Robbie, Thembinkosi TK Nciza, said that his relationship with the music maestro was one where they carried each other during trying times. “We carried each other as brothers. We carried each other’s pains. We influenced each other,” said Nciza.  He said his friend was a jolly person who liked to give and take humorous jabs towards his friends. “He was very naughty.  The way I knew him, I would even know when he looked at you what he was thinking. That’s how connected we were.”   Nciza was one of the few close friends who knew that Robbie was in pain.  “Robbie was afraid of pain, even when we were playing soccer, when the ball would come for his face he would literally run away. So, I knew. I could hear it in his voice, we would talk over the phone for the past year,” said Nciza.  Nciza described Robbie as a genius in the music industry with hits such as Baby Please, Mthande in collaboration with Musa and Zahara’s Loliwe, transcendingthrough generations countrywide.  “Beyond everything else I will always remember his passion for music and how he loved beautiful musicians, beautiful voices. He was a selfless person, he was not preoccupied about how big he becomes” said Nciza.   The memorial service will be held tomorrow at Grace Bible Church in Soweto at 12pm. This will be the opportunity for his supporters, music industry colleagues and  friends to celebrate his life with his family. The funeral, which will also be open to the public, will be held on Tuesday, January 2, at Rhema Bible Church at 8am.