Rudzani Matshili Chief of the South African National Defence Force (SANDF), General Solly Shoke this morning conferred medals to members of the SANDF for their service and professionalism.  The proceedings took place by means of a parade at the Armscor sportsground in Erasmuskloof, Pretoria.  
Shoke said the medals were for the member's loyalty and hard work.  
    To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video
   This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  "Normally the reason why we award medals it is for South Africans to appreciate and also to say thank you to those who work tirelessly, excellently and diligently in the service of our nation," he said.  
"I would like to thank you for your service and professionalism because it is expected of us as custodians of the security of this country that we conduct ourselves in a professional manner and professionalism goes a long way. It is something that requires discipline, loyalty and dedication," he told the recipients.  
He added that medals served as an encouragement and motivation. 
    To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video
   This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.    
He also thanked the recipient's families for their support. "I would like to thank the families of the recipients here on parade for the support that you have been giving them because without your support I don't think they would have been strong enough to be able to achieve what they have achieved today,"he said.   
"Lastly I would like to thank the recipients on parade, you are shining example and a mirror." 
Medals also symbolise loyalty and dedication to the course of defending the territorial integrity of the Republic and are conferred as a token of appreciation to members.