Outgoing ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe’s organisational report has given a stinging rebuke to the party’s “denial” of what he calls “the reality (of state capture) facing our country”. In his report, presented behind closed doors, Mantashe was also critical of the disgraced multinational private companies which have been embroiled in fraud and corruption scandals recently. “State capture is a reality facing our society that forms part of public discourse - including the legislature inquiries - and private debates. “Often, numerous revelations come to the fore, for instance, the Gupta e-mails some of which have been confirmed by the accused,” Mantashe said. “Also, established brands like KPMG, Bell Pottinger, McKinsey - and lately MultiChoice, are under threat as a result of association with state capture.  “Many in our movement are in denial that state capture is a reality facing our country.” The outgoing secretary-general issued a stinging critique of what he believed was the ANC’s dithering response towards acting on the spate of damning allegations of state capture, which Mantashe said “the entirety of the liberation movement is projected as corrupt”. “Once more our movement is flatfooted in this debate because we are reducing it to a personal attack on those seen to be associated with the Gupta family Big brands are being destroyed daily, including Bell Pottinger and KPMG. There is a risk of the 106-year-old brand, the ANC, being dented and ultimately destroyed while we are procrastinating,” Mantashe charged. Earlier this month, Steinhoff - the multinational and diversified company listed in both Joburg and Frankfurt, Germany - became the latest private company to be faced with the ignominy of a fraud and corruption scandal. This was after Steinhoff admitted to “accounting irregularities”, which caused the firm to haemorrhage over R100billion in value in what Cosatu - the unions of which have a stake in Steinhoff through the Public Investment Corporation - called “corruption at its best”. Billionaire Christo Wiese, Steinhoff’s largest shareholder, quit the firm’s supervisory board last week as the aftershock of the alleged accounting fraud at the multinational continued to threaten to subsume it. Political analyst Aubrey Matshiqi argued yesterday that all the ANC’s finance ministers since 1994 had been appointed to appease “dominant colonial establishments”, adding that the narrowing of the state capture probe would not clean up corporate and public-sector corruption.   Carl Niehaus, the spokesperson for the uMkhonto weSizwe Military Veterans’ Association, who was a key campaigner in the Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma presidential campaign, said this proved that corruption was rife in the private rather than the public sector. Niehaus said any investigations into state or corporate capture should not only focus on the Guptas, but on what he said were white minority capitalist families and companies, which he believed had committed the worst form of state capture in South Africa. “The influence of people such as the Rupert family, the influence of the Wiese family and the influence of big financial institutions - such as Sanlam and Investec - all of those need to be investigated if we want to have a true and proper picture of state capture,” Niehaus asserted.