Golden Arrows 0 Mamelodi Sundowns (1) 1 Bangaly 6  MAMELODI Sundowns have been ruthless away from home this season and they stretched that record to seven games without the defeat on the road as they reclaiming their position at the summit of the Absa Premiership standings after beating Golden Arrows at Princess Magogo Stadium in KwaMashu in Durban. First half striker from Bangaly Soumahoro was enough to take Sundowns back to the top of the log. Sundowns are leading with 22 points after 11 league outing. They still have three games in hand but they have already opened up a two point lead. The Tshwane giants have blown away most of their opponents on the road. They have now collected 19 out of the possible 21 points on their travels. Only Chippa United was able to resist the Sundowns army. They played out to 0-0 stalemate last week at Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium in Port Elizabeth. Sundowns coach Pitso Mosimane made one change to the team that humbled Baroka by 4-0 mid-week at Lucas Moripe Stadium. Khama Billiat was omitted from the 18-man squad and Oupa Manyisa was slotted in his place. Billiat is on his way out of Sundowns. The club is trying to  sell him as soon as next month in order to cash in since his contract is set to expire in June. Arrows coach Clinton Larsen made three changes to the team that lost 2-1 against Free State Stars on Wednesday. Nkosingiphile Gumede gifted Abafana Ba Style an opportunity to go in front when he parried a Percy Tau corner straight to Bangaly Soumahoro who capitalised on the poor clearance and slotted the ball into the net in the sixth minute. This early goal gave Sundowns confidence as they dominated possession in a packed midfielder which was made up of Hlompo Kekana, Themba Zwane, Manyisa, Tiyani Mabunda and Sibusiso Vilakazi, who was operating as a second striker. Despite enjoying the bulk of the possession Sundowns failed to create meaningful chances to increase their lead. Sundowns had the post to thank in the 10th minute when Kudakwashe Mahachi unleashed a thunder-bolt which left Denis Onyango shocked between the posts. The Brazilians survived again in the 19th minute when Tebogo Langerman cleared Mahachi’s attempt on the line. Mahachi did find the back of the net in the 26th minute but he was judged to be offside. Arrows defence was tactically  sound and resolute in open play and held their lines well. The game was played at a very high pace. Sundowns’ second shot on target came two minutes before the interval as Tau tried his luck outside the box, Gumede fumbled but was quick to recover. Lack of concentration almost cost Arrows as Vilakazi nearly netted the visitor’s second but his shot was wide. Larsen went for pace,  power and flair when he brought on Nduduzo Sibiya and Thomas Chideu in place of Siphelele Magubane and Lerato Lamola eight minuted into the second period. Sundowns commenced the second half like the house of fire. Gumede made a telling save to deny Kekana from a set-play on 56th minutes. Mahachi was controversially booked by Victor Gomes for what he deemed as the dive in the 58th minutes just outside the box. Gumede kept Arrows in the game with good saves during the second half. Sundowns are now unbeaten in their last five league matches home and away. They will be looking to improve their home record though when they take on Maritzburg United on Wednesday at Loftus Versfeld Stadium in Pretoria.  The game will kick-off at 7.30pm. Sundowns have lost three of their four home matches this season. They have lost to Polokwane City,  AmaZulu and Kaizer Chiefs. They first win at home came against Baroka midweek. Arrows stretched they winless run to nine matches in all competitions. They last victory came on 21 September against Platinum Stars away from home. Arrows will round up the first round against Maritzburg United at home on Sunday.