The UN has noted that about 78 million people have been infected with HIV and 35 million died from Aids-related illnesses since the first cases of HIV were reported. “HIV and Aids have emerged as one of the foremost challenges for poverty alleviation and development in sub-Saharan Africa. Sub-Saharan Africa is home to nearly 30 million of the world’s 42 million people living with HIV and Aids,” a UN report stated. According to Statistics South Africa, 7.6 million of the country’s population were HIV positive. The report showed an increase from the estimated 4.94 million South Africans reportedly living with HIV in 2002. Other reports show that of the 1.8 million new HIV infections worldwide last year, 43% occurred in eastern and southern Africa, with women and girls disproportionately affected.  Statistics SA estimated that in this country, 21% of women in the reproductive age (15 to 49) were HIV positive. It noted that the number had not reduced or increased in the last 15 years. According to last year’s reviews of South African girls aged 15 to 19, 16% had started having children, 12% had already given birth and 3% were pregnant with their first child.  The report further stated that the findings were a concern as teenage pregnancy was one of the main indicators of poverty. “In our Mother and Child Health Centre in Lehae, we are seeing more than 25% of women in the reproductive age test positive for HIV. While mother to child transmission rates are declining, the number of women testing positive is still high, showing that we need to focus on education around prevention,” said Dr Thirza de Jong of the Orange Babies NGO. De Jong said many young girls focused on getting contraceptives, rather than using condoms as the most important thing in their minds was preventing pregnancy.  She said: “As a result, many won’t use a condom and will only use contraceptive, which is why education has become critical here.  “Many women who are HIV positive believe that even though they are on ARVs, they can still transmit HIV to their babies, so they refrain from breastfeeding. As many of these women come from resource-poor areas and they have no money to buy formula milk, they often feed their infants pap and water, which is a huge risk to these children.” Even though many reports showed there was still a serious need to educate people about the virus, the UN noted South Africa had made progress with the development of the National Strategic Plan 2012-2016.  Since the establishment of the plan new HIV infections have been declining, albeit slowly, from 360 000 in 2012 to 270 000 in 2016, mother-to-child HIV transmission rates decreased from 3.6% at six weeks in 2011 to 1.5%.  Life expectancy has also increased to 64.8 years, with women at 67.7 years and men at 61.9 years. People on antiretroviral therapy increased from 2.4 million in 2012 to 3.7 million people. HIV can be transmitted through contact with infected blood, semen or vaginal fluids. Within a few weeks of HIV infection, flu-like symptoms such as fever, sore throat and fatigue can occur. At that point the disease is usually asymptomatic until it progresses to Aids. The symptoms thereafter include weight loss, fever or night sweats and fatigue.  