Consider what happened to a woman we will call Rose when she spoke about the abuse she was receiving from her well-respected partner: “One of our friends said to me: ‘How can you accuse such a fine man?’ Another said that I must be provoking him! Even after my ‘fine man’ was exposed, some of my friends began avoiding me. They felt that I should have put up with him because ‘that’s the way men are'.” Additionally, the law may appear sympathetic to and even protect perpetrators such as Rose’s partner when they seek legal help and security. The UN Declaration on the Elimination of Violence Against Women defines the term "violence against women" as referring to “any act of gender-based violence that results in, or is likely to result in, physical, sexual or mental harm or suffering to women, including threats of such acts, coercion or arbitrary deprivation of liberty, whether occurring in public or in private life.” The violence can include “physical, sexual and psychological violence occurring in the family and in the general community, including battering, sexual abuse of female children, dowry-related violence, marital rape, female genital mutilation and other traditional practices harmful to women”. No wonder many find it difficult to grasp the grim reality of woman and child abuse. Hearing such stories elicits anger and deep concern, borne of a growing discontent with how our rule of law plays out every day. We hear this sentiment more and more often, particularly expressed against institutions established by the state to uphold the law. It is the truth - we are all bound by the same constitution, the same rulebook. Legal Aid South Africa holds a unique position in this country. In the preamble to the Legal Aid SA Act of 2014, our purpose is clearly defined: To ensure access to justice and the realisation of the right of a person to have legal representation as envisaged in the constitution and to render or make legal aid and legal advice available. We do this while also prescribing to the Bill of Rights. This is not a simple task - in providing legal representation to persons at state expense, we are inevitably responsible, much of the time, for representing the accused. Despite the commonly quoted conviction that a person is innocent until proven guilty, reality plays out differently. One of the most persistent accusations levelled against us is that our role is to protect criminals. This is incorrect - Legal Aid SA’s role is to ensure access to justice and the realisation of the right of a person to have legal representation as envisaged in the constitution. The constitution provides every person with the right to legal representation. We offer such legal representation to those who cannot afford it, ensuring access to justice. How this justice unfolds is, in turn, bound by the rule of law. The tendency to view justice as one-dimensional in matters involving violence against women and children is limiting. We cannot develop selective tunnel vision when considering the function of the law. We, too, are outraged. However, the law remains stoic and objective - that is its function. As a vehicle ensuring that the right of a person to legal representation is delivered, Legal Aid SA assists those who require such. We recognise that many in this country are vulnerable; women and children, especially. Our legal practitioners regularly stretch their schedules to take on matters where women and children require legal assistance, as we are mandated to do. The bulk of the matters we handle are criminal matters. Our legal practitioners are often assigned to a client at their first court appearance when they disclose that they cannot afford a lawyer. This is what we are mandated to do. We fulfil our constitutional mandate with the understanding that we respond to social ills in two ways: in the legal representation that we provide to hundreds of thousands of people who cannot afford it, as well as in actively working to repair our fractured society. We cannot undertake our duties to uphold people’s rights while at the same time isolating the context that underpins the public’s anxieties, actions and articulations. Legal Aid SA is deeply concerned with the increased violence against women and children that is seemingly becoming commonplace in this country. We have undertaken to actively monitor and record the prevalence of violence and abuse against vulnerable groups including women, children, the elderly and members of the LGBTIQ+ community. The organisation is also monitoring the government’s comprehensive plan against crime to ensure that the National Development Plan commitment - that by 2030 people living in South Africa should have no fear of crime - is fulfilled. Monitoring such will enable us to actively respond to the reality of South Africa and better empower us to place protection of human rights at the core of our daily undertakings. Women, children and those who are vulnerable should feel protected. We all have a role to play in this, but institutions such as ours have the responsibility to pave the way and demonstrate the workings of the law in a way that proves to all that justice is the foundation of our work. After all, justice is founded on fairness - access to legal representation ensures that justice can be served. Therefore, justice cannot be selective, for it goes against the very nature of what the law is delegated to do. It is stated in the founding provisions of our constitution that the Republic of South Africa is founded on the supremacy of the constitution and the rule of law - trust us to live this. We deliver on our mandate and ensure that rights are upheld. Trust us to be your voice for justice.