The department also rejected media reports that quoted some school principals saying teachers would be retrenched at schools that had seen a reduction in student numbers. Department spokesperson Steve Mabona said instead of retrenching as purported by some principals, the teachers would be deployed in line with departmental redeployment policies. This was consulted on and ratified by labour parties which are members to the Educator Labour Relations Council. Under this policy, the department redeploys teachers, taking into account schools that have lost students and those that have gained learners.  Mabona said furthermore, they had approved 500 posts to address learner growth for the 2018 academic year. He said it was sad that trade union Solidarity demanded that the department keep to the original allocation of teacher posts irrespective of changes on learner population at different schools.  According to Solidarity spokesperson Francois Redelinghuys, the department informed principals at the beginning of December that it would cut funding to about 1800 teacher posts in provincial high schools alone, and that the posts were redundant. Mabona said the department had conducted annual post allocations to ensure schools that shrank or grew in learner population still had a fair amount of teachers.  “In simple terms, schools that experienced learner reduction will be affected by redistribution of teacher posts and those schools that have grown will gain posts from redistribution. It is important noting that same is based on learner numbers,” said Mabona. Mabona said the teacher post allocation process was endorsed by all stakeholders in the education environment and done accordingly. He said they consulted with unions on the proposed post establishment for schools, deadlocked at Provincial Educator Labour Relations Council. The department approved and distributed post establishment to schools on October 12. Unions then rejected the approved post establishments and urged schools not to accept them, and a special chamber was held on November 10 to resolve that the department revise and distribute the post establishments to schools for information verification.  Finally an agreement was reached by all parties to retain the 2017 total post number for 2018 academic year.  The department tabled the revised post establishment at the labour relations council on November 17 and it was ratified. Final revised Post Establishment letters were issued on November 30 to schools. Solidarity had already served papers on the department on Friday, and said it would approach the North Gauteng High Court on an urgent basis should they fail to respond.  “Solidarity will act on behalf of its members in this matter, and will leave no stone unturned to reverse this decision,” said Redelinghuys. The South African Teachers’ Union said it was disappointed that staff allocation at Gauteng schools did not keep up with the big student numbers. MEC for Education Panyaza Lesufi said he was disappointed that some principals resorted to communicating through Solidarity and the media, when the department had afforded them channels to address their appeals. “It is disingenuous for some principals to claim that they did not receive feedback from the department, we are actually baffled.”