JAMES MAHLOKWANE It's been painful for elderly parents who have been waiting for the remains of their son, his wife and children who died in a shack fire on November 11. The Pretoria News visited the relatives and community leaders of Alaska Informal Settlement, Mamelodi, where the family died.  Linah, 63, and Gabriel, 63, Ramalepe said their son's body and that of his family were taken to the Forensic Pathology Government Mortuary in Pretoria for a postmortem weeks ago but they could not afford to wait any longer. The bodies of Isaac Ramalepe, 36, and Mathapelo Ramalepe, 30, and their two children Ramokone, 9, and Boikgantsho, 5, were supposed to be transported to Mokopane in Limpopo for burial. They lost their lives along with the children's uncle who will be buried in Mpumalanga.  "Relatives in Limpopo have been waiting for weeks and now we don't even know what to tell them anymore. The mortuary people just keep postponing and making empty promises to finish their investigations. "We are really so confused and hurting. It's like these pathologist people don't understand our pain and why we need to lay our children to rest and move on from this tragedy," said Linah. The family said they were traditional people and the postmortem test was useless to them. They said they just want to lay the deceased to rest because they already knew they were killed by a fire.  Gabriel said: "This thing is very painful to us as a family and this investigation is just taking our time. Relatives have come and left because there was no progress. This post mortem will not benefit us. We don't even know who those results benefit but not us "
Community leaders Thomas Mosehla said he was disappointed by the sluggish nature in which the mortuary has conducted its investigations.  "A lot of promises were made to the family. Week after week they were promised that investigations were almost done and they would be given the bodies of the deceased in the next few days but that never happened. I expected the mortuary people to understand the pain the family was going through so they could speed up processes. It was sad to see many relatives leave because they had taken leave from work but those leave days were finished without a funeral taking place," The relatives said they were promised to receive the deceased before the end of this week but they couldn't bank on that promise.