The sight of three half-naked men, who had only covered their buttocks and private parts with cultural garments attracted the attention of the public.  The men had arrived from Joburg by train. While some people took videos, others waved and hooted at the three, and motorists were so distracted that they slowed down, causing traffic jams.  The original four Khoisan who had camped out at the Union Buildings demanding that President Jacob Zuma or Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa receive their memorandum, had  walked more than 1000km from Port Elizabeth. The new group were led by Chief Joseph Marble, president of Khoisan Mass Movement in South Africa, who said there were more than 2 million Khoisan in need of housing. “In October, we delivered a memorandum at Parliament, where we highlighted our need for endorsement. “Our letters were received by representatives in both the offices of the Minister in the Presidency, Jeff Radebe, and that of the Minister of Human Settlements, Lindiwe Sisulu, but we have not received any feedback,” he said. Marble hoped their second memorandum would be responded to between seven and 14 days.  Shadrack Mudau received the memorandum on behalf of the Presidency and told them he would ensure they receive their response within the period they had requested. Soon after they had delivered their memorandum the trio met with the other three Khoisan men outside the Union Buildings. “At the moment we do not know exactly what our brothers here are demanding, but they will give us a copy of their memorandum and sit with them and discuss their memorandum in detail,” said Chief Khoisan SA, leader of the other group. His group has been living in two tents, waiting to submit their memorandum since its arrival two weeks ago.  Chief Khoisan SA said they remained adamant they would go nowhere until either Zuma or Ramaphosa lent them an ear.  However, their demand was different to their Joburg counterparts; they wanted the land legislation to be scrapped or amended, as it held them back from owning land.  They are also demanding that their language, which is emblazoned on the national coat of arms, be included as an official language.