Joint efforts will discourage poaching among people from local communities around the massive park and from neighbouring countries Mozambique and Zimbabwe. This week SANParks  brought together local traditional leaders and the media to a discussion on the increasing rate of poaching within the boundaries of the Kruger. Just as the meeting started, participants stumbled on a rhino that had been killed on Sunday night and another that was being dehorned on Monday morning. Park rangers reacting to gunshots rushed to the scene and arrested three men in the act. South Africans Emmanuel Madluli, 29, Walter Mhangani, 55, and Mozambican Xongani Mathebule appeared in court on Monday. They were remanded in custody until December 4, to face charges of trespassing, poaching and the illegal possession of firearms and ammunition. After witnessing the crime first-hand and listening to facts during a presentation, the chiefs concluded that there needed to be continuous engagement between the park and them, to ensure community awareness. They promised to enlighten their people, said to be used by syndicates to commit these crimes. The community leaders believed the poachers were aided by elements who supplied inside information. They pledged to encourage locals to report suspicious neighbours who had sudden changes in lifestyle even when they were not employed. The park said it already had a good relationship with the police, who deployed specialised forensic investigators and other specialised units at times of need. They reported successful arrests and convictions. The chiefs said there was a need to identify the market for the horns. Large mammal ecologist Sam Ferrera said that  although the park attracted scores of tourists from around the globe, endangered species such as the rhino were dying in large numbers at the hands of poachers. Ferrera said the spike in poaching rasied the need for rhino counts more frequently. “South Africa has 80% of the global population of white rhinos, but the numbers are declining due to poaching,” said Ferrera. He said an annual census could cost more than R1million, but it was necessary to know the population of the wild species.