Many of us might relate to a tale that goes like this: Growing up, I was a very naughty child who felt very entitled to mom’s purse and her big, silver R1 coins. Obviously that meant helping myself to a few every now and again. This was not very popular with both folks and to teach me a lesson, they would call their police “friends” to come and warn me about the dangers and implications of the crime I was committing. These police friends (or rather actors, now that I know better) always came in full uniform toting firearms to drive the message home. Boy, did it work! It screamed: “Stop stealing coins. Respect the law or face the full might of the law.” South Africa, once regarded one of the continent’s leading emerging markets, is now inundated with the triple challenges of poverty, inequality and unemployment. I sit here reading and listening to it all, wondering what went wrong. Where did we lose it? What could be contributing to this? On Sunday, November 12, congregants at The Revelation Church of God attacked a Johannesburg Metro police officer for towing an illegally parked vehicle near the church’s premises. This was to clear traffic congestion. A video depicting the incident has gone viral and people are still talking about it on various media platforms. The Bloomberg Misery Index revealed in July that South Africa was the second most miserable country in the world, next to Venezuela. The index is calculated by adding up a country’s projected rate of inflation and unemployment. Our country has one of the highest unemployment and inequality levels in the world. The statistics are staggering. Crime is also on the rise. Figures released by the Department of Police in October show an overall increase of 9.6% in crimes in the 2016/17 financial year. Crime in our country is a poison that makes South Africa an undesirable place to live in. According to the SAPS, 57 police officers died in the 2016/17 financial year. A number of these deaths occurred while the officers were on duty. The church incident is one of many that demonstrate how low our country’s morale is. In what type of society do citizens disarm and then gang up on a police officer? At what point did it become okay to do that to a person who represents the rule of law? Or to anyone for that matter? Could it be, perhaps, that communities and society are avenging police brutality? The Marikana massacre of  August 12, 2012, where 34 miners were gunned down by the police, will go down in history as one of the most brutal police acts of our time. The massacre and its violence remain a painful reminder of our past. The incident and others like it emphasise that we still have a long way to go as a democracy. Figures released by the Independent Police Investigative Directorate in June show a shocking increase in the number of people who died in police custody. It reveals a 30% year-on-year increase of deaths caused by police action. Last year there were 159 deaths reported. The 2017 report recorded 207 deaths. Law enforcement is primarily the responsibility of SAPS. But what happens when the police do not abide by the rules? And, by the way, their responsibility is to ensure we live in a safe society; their role is to protect us. All these factors - coupled with high levels of corruption among public officials - have caused society to lose confidence and faith in many facets of government to serve and protect. Law enforcement in particular has come under fire for the way it has handled service delivery protests and community demonstrations and how it generally responds to crime. The SAPS has its own inefficiencies and internal problems to solve. That, however, is a topic for another day. So how do we respond as valued citizens? I regard myself as a global citizen who strives to understand the dynamics of citizenship. A valued citizen, according to my vision, first upholds our constitutional values - from home to school to the workplace to society in general - by learning about the constitution, its history, its values and rights and how government operates. Valued citizens take responsibility for their civic rights, abide by the rule of law and take pride in who they are as citizens of South Africa. Our constitutional values cannot be traded; we have to stand for what defines us as a people. This vision is distorted each time I read about violent protests that have taken over our country, be it in schools in Vuwani, Limpopo, or in the streets of Durban, Joburg, Cape Town or Pretoria. Violence is not a solution. At times, it manifests when our Grade 4 pupils define South Africa as a country at war, as witnesses or victims of violent crime. I have great passion with my team for developing the character of citizens through life skills programmes for people to find their voices and become responsible, valued citizens. We are determined to lead our lives honestly, engaging with our democracy and contributing to our economy. Hope is fading day by day and we witness it through our pupils in public schools. Children are now asking: Who cares? What has happened to the slogans “Batho Pele”, it takes a village to raise a child? A South Africa alive with possibilities? The incident at The Revelation Church of God was a pure criminal act by the congregants. Suspects were arrested and I am sure culprits will be dealt with accordingly. A statement by Johannesburg mayor Herman Mashaba on Monday, November 13, indicates that the main suspect was an undocumented immigrant. If we were to look beyond the miseries and focus on empowerment, build each other and work towards a common goal, a lot could be achieved. Let’s take our responsibilities through our various roles as parents, extended family, neighbours and valued citizens to hold self, others and government representatives accountable for our people to feel valued - meaning cared for, protected, and accepted. In the same way, we need law-enforcement authorities that respect and uphold the values that their duties call on them to uphold, and take pride in the role they play in our communities. Wouldn’t that be a better South Africa? * Carole Podetti Ngono is the founder and managing director of Valued Citizens Initiative, an NGO founded in 2001 in answer to the request of the Gauteng Department of Education to develop citizenship education in public schools