Pretoria - For the second time this year, the monthly ordinary sitting of the Tshwane council collapsed after EFF councillors stayed away. 
And just like in August, there was no word from the “fighters” on why they opted to stay away from the council. Numerous attempts to get hold of party leader in council, Benjamin Disoloane, came to nought. The DA-led multi-party government and ANC were left blaming each other for the postponement of the sitting. The parties had a pro- longed public spat in October after a group of Afrikaans children were forced to leave the council amid racial mudslinging at their presence. Chief Whip of the council, Christo van den Heever, started proceedings with the register and excused all unavailable councillors from different political parties. He then apologised for two of the 25 EFF councillors who had applied for leave of absence. The meeting got off to a smooth start and continued as such until the second item on the agenda, the Expanded Public Works Programme (EPWP). By then, eyebrows were being raised at the absence of EFF councillors in the House. ANC members requested a caucus, with opposition leader Mapiti Matsena returning moments later and asking for a count of councillors present. It emerged the council was inquorate, and the sitting had to be postponed. Afterwards, mayor Solly Msimanga accused the ANC of walking out in disapproval of the new EPWP registration drive being run by the City. The item was next on the agenda when the ANC requested a caucus. Msimanga said it was disappointing, but unsurprising, that the ANC elected to walked out. ”They did this in protest of the new EPWP registration drive that has seen more than 70 000 people registered on our database,” said Msimanga. He said it was bizarre that the very same ANC councillors who claimed to speak up for the needs of communities had once again proven that they only had their own interests at heart. “They have chosen to play politics at the expense of city residents. The public must know that on this day the ANC in Tshwane demonstrated that it is not in support of EPWP for the interests of the people,” he said. Msimanga said if the ANC truly cared about the well-being of the people it claimed to serve, the party would be on the ground encouraging more and more people to register on the database. “The DA-led multi party administration will not be part of wasteful expenditure. As such, we will give the food that was meant to be served at the day-long meeting to the homeless,” said Msimanga. But the ANC caucus rejected the claims on why the council had to be rendered inquorate. Matsena said the number of councillors available did not form a quorum. “We wish to put it on record that ANC councillors arrived for the sitting of the council and registered to participate. For the council to proceed, there should be a quorum of 108 councillors present in the meeting, but unfortunately the number was only 93, inclusive of all parties with the exception of the EFF,” said Matsena. He said the EFF boycotted the meeting and not the ANC. Matsena also claimed the EPWP was the brainchild of the ANC. He said the programme had over the past 12 years transformed the lives of people, equipped young people with skills and decreased significantly the high levels of poverty in black families. He said the EPWP grant came from the national government and it was made accessible to municipalities by the ANC-led government. Matsena said the “alliance of tenders between the EFF and the DA” greatly undermined the work of the council and was against service delivery. “The DA/EFF Speaker of council proceeded to call a council meeting even after she knew that a great number of white DA councillors had taken leave to start with their vacation and also that the EFF had already indicated to them that they won’t make the meeting until a tender brawl was finalised,” he claimed. Meanwhile, a motion of no confidence to oust Nelson Mandela Bay mayor Athol Trollip failed late on Thursday. In Joburg, the motion against mayor Herman Mashaba was still being debated. Pretoria News