Independent Media reported last week that Keating’s company, Forensic Data Analysts (FDA), was the sole supplier to the SAPS - through Sita - of a firearm permit system and software as well as forensic  equipment worth around R5.7billion since 2010. During a Scopa hearing, the DA’s Tim Brauteseth alleged Keating had rewarded two SAPS members with a trip to Manchester United’s Old Trafford Stadium six months after Keating had sold forensic camera equipment worth an undisclosed amount to the SAPS through Unisys Africa. Media reports this week stated that in a letter sent to former acting police commissioner Lieutenant-General Lesetja Mothiba, Ipid said Keating also paid for vehicles for Phahlane, his wife Brigadier Ntombizodwa Phahlane and his sister. On Monday the Hawks and Ipid, obtained search and seizure warrants for several properties linked to the Phahlanes and Keating. Documents, computer equipment, cellphones, iPads and a Ford Ranger were seized. Media reports stated that this week’s raids were conducted under the direction of the Special Commercial Crimes Unit. They were part of Ipid’s investigation into allegations of corruption and money laundering involving Phahlane. The investigation detected possible crimes of corruption, fraud and money laundering, facilitated by car dealer Durand Snyman and paid for by Keating. The properties searched included Phahlane’s home in Sable Hills, Keating’s FDA offices and home, Snyman’s office and home, and the house of Phahlane’s mother where his sister lives. Both Ipid and the Hawks said they would not comment on an ongoing investigation. Phahlane welcomed the probe into the allegations made against him, saying that the investigation would clear his name. “No one is above the law, they had search warrants and we must follow due processes,” he said. However, he added that he did not appreciate two male officers allegedly physically searching his two daughters aged 9 and 13. He confirmed that officers seized documents and computer equipment from his Sable Hills home in Pretoria. Two home computers, two computers that belong to his daughters and two of his personal iPads were seized along with documents that he claims “have nothing to do with this investigation”. Phahlane said the documents related to a string of e-mails from forensic investigator Paul O’Sullivan. He  is investigating Phahlane after questions were raised about the top cop’s cars, property and a sound system. Other documents seized included information Phahlane received from his source on alleged illegal transactions involving Ipid head Robert McBride. “Nothing was found that was not supposed to be in my house. Not that I have anything to hide,” Phahlane said. He said it was “all wild allegations”. At his mother’s house, police seized his sister’s Ford Ranger that he said she happened to purchase from Snyman’s dealership. “This was fully paid for by her and I hope that when they are done with the investigation they will return the car back to her fully valeted,” Phahlane said. His sister’s digital tablet and bank statements were also seized. He said he was aware that his wife, who works in the Technology Management Services unit, has been accused of helping Keating secure forensics and IT tenders from the SAPS. “My wife works in that unit and she is a brigadier and not the head of the unit. She does not deal with procurement processes and neither do I. I don’t sit on any panel or platform that decided on tenders and contracts,” he said. Keating confirmed that his house and office had been raided at 6am on Monday. His lawyers were dealing with the raids and the “shortcomings and violations in terms of the  Search and Seizure warrant”. “I categorically deny these wild accusations. It is a final desperate attempt to continue the outright onslaught against Lt-Gen Phahlane. "Let the criminal justice system take its course and then we can all decide,” Keating said in a WhatsApp response to Independent Media. He added that the reports from Ipid were “absurd” and claimed that the SAPS payments to FDA of R4.2bn were incorrect. “This was overstated by more than R3.7bn. Basic, basic facts that they could very easily have verified. The allegations by Bowmens (a legal firm conducting a forensic investigation into the FDA), Ipid and Sita around tender irregularities about due process within Sita not having been followed is ridiculous,” Keating said. He claimed to have proof in the form of a document. “Lets see how they explain the signatures on the document, all the way to the board of Sita. "The poor level of investigation by the Hawks and Ipid into the procurement contract for the forensic lights is astonishing. How they are unable to confirm that this was all done on an open tender process is unbelievable,” he said.