The three who originally walked from the Eastern Cape to Pretoria have since been joined by a fourth man. The men have embarked on a fast in the hope that Zuma or Ramaphosa meet them. Should either of the men fail  to meet with them by today, more Khoisan men could join them. They also vowed to use the upcoming ANC national conference to seek the attention of the leaders, and would not leave until Zuma or Ramaphosa had given them a hearing. Led by Chief Khoisan SA, the men want the government to officially recognise the community as the first citizens in the country. Their other demand includes the recognition of their language as one of the official languages, he said. They also wanted legislation on land to be scrapped or amended - as they said it was holding them back from owning land. The new man, Christian Martin, said: “We are a strong group that work together. When the one limb suffers, the other limb joins in support. We have heard of them not being allowed to go in. I immediately flew in from PE to come and support the chief.” Martin said they had decided to intensify their mission to have access to the Presidency by embarking on a fast. He said the purpose of fasting was to ask for a divine intervention to soften the hearts of Zuma and Ramaphosa. He said: “If you look at  Mahatma Gandhi, why did he go into fast for many times? For a breakthrough. To show people that he was serious about what he was doing. “Jesus went up the mountain to fast. Why? Because spiritually we believe that when you distance yourself from certain niceties there is external power that goes out of your being. So that is what we believe as the Khoi people.” Part of their fast included waking up to pray before the crack of dawn. “The Chief spoke to us last night (Friday)  and even this morning (Saturday) at 2am before we started to pray within our great place. We went out to walk like the soldiers when they walked near the walls of Jericho. We walked for about 500m along the Union Buildings wall. We walked 14 times up and down as part of what we believe in,” he said. Many people had opened their hearts to donate food after reading about their story, he said. However, because of their fast they donated the food to homeless people, he said. Their prayers were also dedicated to the leadership of the country. “We have nothing against our country's leaders, but we want them to listen to our pleas. We are not here to speak bad about anything. “We first worshipped and praised God. We then prayed for the hearts of the president and the deputy president both must be opened” Chief Khoisan SA said: “When we came here we didn’t intend to stay so long. We just planned it to be an in-and-out trip. We now find ourselves in a  situation where we now need to plan days ahead. We are going to start putting in play our plan of action, for this week. “Our families are crying. Every day I have to hear my wife crying asking when we are coming home.” He vowed not to go home until Zuma or Ramaphosa had given them a hearing. “We cannot be the laughing stock of our people if we go back home having accepted anything less that the president or deputy,” he said.