I literally lived up to that on Monday evening when I found myself “trapped” in the Pretoria CBD. In the 26 years of my life, it was the first time I spent Christmas evening away from home and my family. But, duty calls. As my cousin dropped me off at my place, I saw two beggars who always hang around our flat entrance. They looked sober and in distress, and so did I. “Ola, Merry Christmas. Please buy us something to eat for Christmas. Please Bro,” they pleaded. I told them I’d be back shortly to sort out their dinner. It was after 7pm. I realised at that point that I was saddened by petty things. I had Christmas breakfast and lunch with family. I was with my loved ones and I was showered with lots of love. These two particular guys and many others across the country were shown no love - even for a little while. I grabbed my wallet and went downstairs to look for them. I could not find them, and as I was planning to camp on the empty street to give them 20 more minutes to show up, one of them spotted me and came running. “O boile Bra-yaka (you are back my brother), thank you very much. The other guy went to the other side, some guy promised to buy us pizza down the road.” He indicated the direction and we followed him. I was trusting. He suggested that we wait for him at an intersection. Within five minutes, he spotted his friend walking towards us more than 50m away in a fairly lit Pretoria CBD. I was impressed and surprised by their brotherhood. They trust each other and look after each other. We hooked up and made our way to the nearest restaurant for a sit-in. We ordered our meals, and after a short while, began to tuck in. Instantly, their faces started glowing. I understood from our conversations that they hadn’t been in a restaurant in ages. From that minute, I had a little bit of an epiphany. I realised that family is not strictly blood, family is love. I was away from my blood family and relatives, but the love and warmth I felt,  received and shared with those guys was genuine and heart-warming. I listened to their stories and was heartbroken. Those guys hadn’t seen their families for over two years. They both kept repeating: “I want to see my family. I want to go home Bra KayBee. I just want to be home.” They really had a longing to go back home. There was so much remorse in their voices. They desperately wished they could turn back the hands of time and do things differently. I promised to check on them after a few days, to see if they still felt the same way about going back to their families. One of the guys, whose home is not far from Pretoria asked me to send his mom a simple “Merry Christmas” text with his name as footnote. I asked if he knew her number by heart, and he started calling it out. I dialled the numbers, and the phone was answered by a sweet calm voice. Indeed it was his mom. I explained how I met her son and we had a good chat for a good 10 minutes. I then handed my phone to him. He cried hysterically as he spoke. Then I remembered Denzel Washington’s words, in one of his commencement  speeches: “The most selfish thing you can do in this world is to help someone else. Because, (of) the gratification, the goodness that comes from it, the good feeling I get from helping others.” I agree. In the same speech, he added; “Don’t just aspire to make a living, aspire to make a difference.” I had a meaningful Christmas evening. A Happy New Year to you and your loved ones. May it be a year of making a difference in others. Kabelo Chabalala is founder of the Young Men Movement. E-mail, kabelo03chabalala@gmail.com; Twitter, @KabeloJay; Facebook, Kabelo Chabalala.