JAMES MAHLOKWANE
james.mahlokwane@inl.co.za Tshwane residents were urged to make their way to Freedom Park to enjoy the Christmas festival taking place until December 30, courtesy of a partnership between the heritage site, the City and Production Projects.  Production Projects executive, Rudi Kesting, said the company showcased its experience in staging successful events since 1981. He said a magnificent stage was set up to complement the Christmas lights and carols that ignited Pretoria’s Christmas spirit when they switched on from 7pm every night. “The City of Tshwane supports this initiative of goodwill to its residents, and has generously contributed its resources. Freedom Park is a spectacular venue right in the middle of Tshwane that belongs to the people. It is exciting and fascinating to visit, and has a restful ambience that provides calm for the soul. Now we add Christmas cheer to the mix. “It has been a long time since Tshwane has had Christmas Lights. The wonder of the child awakens in all of us when we gaze in awe at little twinkling fairy lights. In the stunning ambience of Freedom Park, you will be able to indulge the magic of Christmas under our African sky,” Kesting challenged parents to go and enjoy an evening outside in the wonderful spirit of Christmas and browse through the Christmas market. He said children could play in a safe playground while their parents or guardians filled their tummies with snacks and rested on the grass. “Come and enjoy some food and drinks in the amphitheatre while our Christmas angel leads you in Christmas carols as the sun sets.  Plus, the view of Pretoria from Freedom Park hill is unbelievable,” He said Freedom Park was secure as it had emergency services on site. He said that meant motorists could safely park their vehicles at Jopie Fourie School in Salvokop and catch a free bus ride up to the festival at the top of Freedom Hill. Tickets were pre-sold at computicket or at the gate for R80 per adult and R30 per child. Children who were younger than two years were granted free entry.  The heritage site said it hoped people could come and find gifts for their loved ones in the market and interested traders should join the market by sending an email to traders@productionprojects.co.za or dialing 012 327 0046.