Her husband, a lawyer, turned to the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, to ask that his wife, a senior official at a state department, forfeited 15% of the benefits of their joint estate. The parties, who may not be identified in terms of the law, were married in community of property. The estate would have ordinarily been divided equally between the parties. But the husband felt that his wife, to whom he was married for 25 years, had to forfeit a portion of the estate as punishment for her behaviour during their marriage. The couple married in 1992, but the husband moved out of their joint home in 2012 as he could "no longer handle her". He told the court she never supported him professionally or personally, and had isolated him from his friends and family. He complained that she was rude to his family, did not greet them and made them feel unwelcome. He said she seldom, if ever, contributed financially to their household. He also accused her of having an extramarital affair, but what aggrieved him the most was that she had tried to assault him on various occasions. The court was told that during one of these assaults she tried to stab him and he had to call the police. The husband said his wife’s conduct left him lonely and isolated during their marriage. She even refused to entertain his suggestion that they seek marriage counselling. The wife, on the other hand, said she did contribute to the house and specified to the court that she had bought all the vegetables. She also claimed that she on occasion also paid the water and lights bill, but could not provide proof of this. She further denied that she had assaulted her husband, although she did admit that he on occasion called the police. According to the woman, her husband started that fight then called the police. She also blamed his family and friends for interfering in their marriage. Acting Judge M Mbongwe questioned the wife’s defences and said not only was her conduct wrong, but it contributed hugely to the failure of their marriage. Regarding the fact that the husband asked that she forfeit 15% of their joint estate, he said: “It is impossible for parties in a marriage in community of property to contribute equally to the cent towards the joint estate a contribution need not necessarily be financial for it to be recognised as such. “However, it has to be disturbing where, while a financial contribution can and should be made, a party simply shuns the responsibility to share the financial burden resulting in the other being overburdened.” The husband up to the end deposited up to R10 000 a month into the bank account of his wife for household expenses, without asking questions. On inspection of her account, the court discovered that she had saved all this money. In ordering that she forfeit 15% of the joint estate for her “misconduct”, the judge also took into account that the 63-year-old husband left the house to his wife. He turned down the wife’s claim for monthly maintenance from her husband. The judge said she was much younger and could work for longer, and she did not need the money. But he also had some stern words for the husband, who had moved in with his lover before the divorce was granted. He said the man should have waited for the divorce before he took this step. “It is at odds with the norms of a normal marriage relationship.” Pretoria News