Angry residents blamed the City of Tshwane for unplanned outages, accusing it of providing substandard electricity to poor people living in RDP houses. Sarah Masemola, who is diabetic, said her health condition was adversely affected during power failure. “I find it difficult to cope without electricity because I need power to prepare food before I take medication. I don’t have a paraffin stove to fall back on like other residents,” she said. According to Masemola, outages were often experienced during rains or heavy winds. “Whenever there are heavy winds and rain we expect the power to go off.” Many residents said outages had been a common occurrence since the establishment of the settlement in 2007. They complained that unplanned outages caused serious damage to their electrical appliances. Another resident, Maria Nkosi, said that some time ago she had to take her fridge for repairs after it was damaged when power was restored. “Most of my electrical appliances were damaged due to these outages,” she said. Residents said they also experienced outages on Christmas Day every year. Lizette Mabena said: “We are already expecting to spend our Christmas in the dark because we surely won’t have power.” She said residents were likely to be left without electricity for about two or three days in a week. “We are frustrated by the situation because no one from the City of Tshwane cares to warn us before there are outages.” Ward councillor Esther Motsomane said she was inundated with complaints from frustrated residents due to constant power outages. “I know about the problem. It has been going on for many years. I have made efforts to report it to the City but no one has attended to it,” she said. Utility services MMC Darryl Moss said he didn’t know about the problem, but suspected it might be caused by illegal connections. Moss promised to investigate the situation and attend to it as soon as possible. “I would need to find out; it may be illegal connections that cause the trips,” he said. Residents said their complaints to a municipal office in Soshanguve fell on deaf ears as no one had attended to them. According to them, City officials also claimed to know nothing about the cause of the power outages.