JAMES MAHLOKWANE 
Former contract workers blocked the Tshwane House entrance yesterday and threatened to shut down municipal services if they were not hired permanently by the City of Tshwane before the end of the year. 
They said they worked in waste collection, sanitation and electricity for different companies that were contracted by the city until they were all stopped from working between 2008 and 2012.  
They claimed to have communicated with mayor Solly Msimanga, city manager Msizi Myeza and the city’s human resources department but they suspected that some "corrupt" HR officials prevented their absorption.  
One of the workers and EFF member, Austine Mailula said: “The former mayor of Tshwane, Kgosientso Ramokgopa, signed documents on February 28 in 2011 that we would finally be employed permanently. When Mayor Solly Msimanga took over, we showed him the documents signed by Ramokgopa and he did not object. On January 12 this year, he signed forms that we should be absorbed but we believe that some city officials who are hiding their "corrupt" ways have been making it impossible for that to happen.  
“Msimanga expected us to talk to HR to finalise the matter so we could be given a date to return to work but some people stood in the way of that. They send us from pillar to post and they avoid meeting with us. In fact, we were supposed to have been absorbed in 2010 but some city officials brought their relatives and put them in our places. That’s why we are people who worked in city services for many years but we still find ourselves in this situation,” 
He said they have become “ghost workers” because according to systems of numerous companies, they appeared as employees of the city.  
“Some of these people here, including myself, have lost jobs because when companies checked our names on their systems, we appeared as employees of the city. You can’t even resign from the city because you don’t even know where to go. Those who tried to claim from the unemployment Insurance fund were told their claims could not be processed because they were still employed. Even SARS (South African Revenue Services) thinks we are working. That is why we believe that there are some "corrupt" officials who do not want us to return to work. Our return would expose their corruption,” 
The group said they wanted to speak to the mayor directly so he could know exactly what was happening. They said they were affected negatively by the situation as they could not care for their families without salaries. 
The mayor’s spokesperson, Samkelo Mgobozi, said he had limited knowledge on the matter at the moment but he would supply a more informed comment later.  
“What I do know is that the city cannot afford to employ everyone permanently. Job creation remains our core function but absorbing every single person is impossible,” 
Mailula said city officials eventually agreed to meet with representatives of the workers today to discuss their plight. He said the police who were deployed to the protest would be a part of that meeting