When our perpetually unavailable 20-somethings agree to a trip with my husband and I, they’re the ones who devise the theme and set the pace. So we knew exactly what to expect in the Caribbean: action, action, action. Our five-day time frame centred us in Nassau, on New Providence. A direct flight, abundant on-site services and the feasibility of day trips to other Bahamian islands clinched the deal. We budgeted about $200 (R2500) a person a day for the thrills. Luckily, free transportation was provided to the action sites via shuttle pick-ups at most hotels. To cut costs, we rented a pretty Airbnb villa in a centrally located Paradise Island compound at $210 a night for four people. Here, we hung out in the early morning and late evening, eating and talking on a wonderful, private patio. The Bahamian grocery store prices (about $8 for 4 litres of milk) gave us sticker shock, as did the restaurants; nearly all staples are imported. But we were there for adrenalin rushes. Our primary missions were: shipping off to the Exumas with Powerboat Adventures; plunging into the Aquaventure Water Park at Atlantis Paradise Island; swimming with the dolphins at Blue Lagoon Island; and piloting Stuart Cove’s personal "scenic underwater bubbles" (subs). Many speedboats offer trips to the shimmering, turquoise Exumas. Powerboat Adventures provides comfy seating and raincoats. We jumped off at Allan Cay, using sticks to feed grapes to burly iguanas. Then loudspeakers blasted us off to Ship Channel Cay with the Mission Impossible theme. The boat swerved dramatically as passengers screamed with glee. Landing at mid-morning, we were met by a grinning bartender proffering rum-doused Bahama Mamas and Yellow Birds at a fast clip. Meanwhile, large stingrays skirted the beach nearby. Soon, they were gliding over our circle of lined-up toes, nibbling the mahi-mahi we fed them. However, shark fins knifed the vodka-clear water, and we were ordered back to shore. Our guide Remon shouted: “Seventeen today!” Scenes from Jaws had been filmed nearby, but he said there were no great whites there. Bahamian seawater is too warm for that, even in December. Remon called, “Come, snorkellers!” But only half the tour group went, even though it was part of the deal. At the cabana afterwards, it was time for a bountiful buffet lunch. Remon pulled a table into the water and deftly minced a mound of peppers, limes, onions, tomatoes and fresh conch into a scrumptious salad served in little cups; it was the taste of pure, post-adrenalin bliss. From practically anywhere in Nassau, it’s hard to miss the enormous, conch-pink towers of the Atlantis resort. We had all-day passes to the 57-hectare, Mayan-themed Aquaventure Water Park. Our impatient progeny charged off, on track to conquer every spine-chilling waterslide. When the 18m, near-vertical drop of the Leap of Faith plunged me into the acrylic tunnel that’s all there is between sliders and a pool of circling sharks, my eyes were shut so tight that I only caught the fins in the last second. Thankfully, I discovered the Lazy River Ride, in a comfy tube. The palm-filled beaches on Blue Lagoon Island are dotted with jelly-bean-bright chairs, strung hammocks and free kayaks. My son and I took the 5km boat ride from Nassau to the island’s marina for an interactive dolphin swim accredited by the Alliance of Marine Mammal Parks and Aquariums. My husband stayed behind to tour Nassau with our daughter, who does not approve of wild-animal attractions. The two of us had reservations as well, but I had done my due diligence and knew this site settles Atlantic bottlenose dolphins native to the Caribbean in a tidal seawater lagoon. Here, mothers are never forcefully separated from calves, males have forged lifelong friendships and no dolphin is forced to participate in the encounters. On arrival, we were escorted to a lagoon, outfitted with life vests and led to a floating dock. Trainer Antivia gave a strict, if encouraging, lesson to our group of six on manners with dolphins. Don’t touch the blowhole; don’t pet below the umbilical opening; let them come to you, not vice versa. We began to tread water and two male dolphins slid under our noses, allowing us to trace our fingers over their silky smooth backs and bellies. Antiva rewarded them with some herring and squid. They approached again, now eye-to-eye with us, to offer hugs - at least that’s what they seemed like - and led us in a sort of dance, shaking their flippers and singing in squeaks and clicks. After an hour of immersion, our group went to another lagoon where two female dolphins waited for us, one at a time, to lie belly-down in the water, toes pointed. When it was my turn, two short, stubby beaks suddenly propelled me vertical by pushing the soles of my feet, and I found myself zooming across the lagoon as if riding Neptune’s chariot. Afterwards, my son and I agreed that our proximity to these magnificent animals had made us more acutely aware of the need to protect them. A shuttle took us to Stuart’s Cove’s Dive Bahamas to become sub pilots for an afternoon. Our moored dive boat was loaded with rows of futuristic, banana-yellow “scooters”, so called because you sit on them, legs astride, as on a scooter (even though they’re not motorised). They’re also called “personal submarines” because that’s their effect underwater as you settle into the head bubble, grinning and breathing freely, forgetting that the attached air tank is making this possible. “Looks like a sea horse, yes!” our guide enthused, before immersing us in the required half-hour video lesson on how to hand-navigate our individual subs. Suddenly I began to regret that I didn’t acknowledge occasional claustrophobia on the medical-release form. But after the 45-minute boat ride to the coral reefs, when two divers guided my head into the spacious capsule, I felt great, giddy even, as I sank. At a depth of 5-6m, our group - led by divers - navigated reefs nibbled by parrotfish, snappers and blue tangs. The rounded head bubble created some curious distortion; my hands and feet looked like those of a doll and I wish I’d ordered a wet suit, as I was shivering. Still, I didn’t want to miss a second. Back on board, my husband was high-fiving the kids. “Can you believe that? Too crazy!” Afterwards, we were given time to snorkel around freely and it felt, well, so darn average. We’d become adrenalin junkies. So, yes, we also cooked and ate in restaurants, walked the wharves of Nassau and Paradise Island, visited the Straw Market, swam off Cabbage Beach in the moonlight and watched the wild Junkanoo float parade, but the action adventures were our family’s team trophies. On the plane, our son said that his favourite moment might have been dancing together to a live band on Arawak Cay. But wait, that was free. Kids! - The Washington Post