The walkabout entailed a walk through the Progressive Business Forum (PBF) expo centre. It was for Zuma to meet and greet the exhibitors with PBF chairperson Daryl Swanepoel. The security measures that have been placed in and around Nasrec have often made it extremely difficult for the media to move around as freely as they would want to. For the walkabout, there was a request for the media to meet at a specific point in order to be escorted through to the expo centre. After standing in the scorching sun for a while, some journalists started getting restless, openly asking whether it was worthwhile taking part in the walkabout at all. But the chance to get up close and take a picture of the president at the national elective conference proved too great an opportunity to pass up. When the officials from the ANC department of information and publicity requested that broadcast media move to the front, raucous laughter came from the rest of the group. Once inside, Zuma moved from exhibit to exhibit laughing, shaking hands and taking pictures with the many business owners. His entourage included personal security, support staff, police and the ANC’s officials from its department, who all made sure the media weren’t too overzealous in their picture taking. When some of the photographers tried to manoeuvre their way in for a better view, they were quickly met with a tug, a push or a side eye that would make a lesser individual cower into a corner. Zuma himself was wreathed in smiles, laughing and greeting some of the members of the media. Some of the stand owners were less than impressed with the media as they used much of their furniture as props to get a better view for that perfect image of the president. When they weren’t almost collapsing the stands, they were nibbling on the sweet stock or complaining about how long the walkabout really was. The lack of air-conditioning in the expo centre didn’t help either, resulting in hungry and irritated journalists. After the expo centre walkabout, Zuma moved on to the National Heritage Monument’s Long March to Freedom sculptures that are on display at Nasrec. He moved through the statues of the various liberation leaders, including Govan Mbeki and Solomon Mahlangu, reminiscing about yesteryear. Standing in front of Mbeki’s statue, Zuma shared some fond memories he shared with the Struggle stalwart. “We had a lot of debate and disagreed on fundamental issues. We discussed and discussed until we agreed that we can’t agree (on the issue at hand),” he fondly recalled. 