They were placed in the empty houses by community leaders, who said the occupants were in desperate need. Among them were disabled and old people, community leader Joseph Bapela said, adding that they had done do because the municipality had failed to provide them with a list of beneficiaries for six months. He said they could not wait any longer. MMC for Housing and Human Settlements Mandla Nkomo told the Pretoria News that for the City to allocate the houses to their rightful owners, the current occupants needed to be evicted. Bapela said, however, the occupants would oppose any eviction efforts. He also demanded that the present occupants be recognised as the rightful beneficiaries. He said some of the occupants were the very people who were already going to be placed by the municipality and it would make no sense to evict them. On Friday, Bapela and other leaders mobilised occupants and gathered outside the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, calling for a favourable verdict. The provincial government had taken the matter to court, where the case was postponed to tomorrow to allow lawyers time for further submissions. Bapela said: “Government lawyers have until today (Monday) to make final submissions for their argument and by tomorrow a verdict will be issued. Our feeling is that an eviction order would only stress and traumatise the disabled and elderly occupants. It is not necessary.” The community was worried that some who would be placed by the municipality would not be residents of Olievenhoutbosch. He said another thing which worried them was that the construction began in 2013, but a lot of RDP houses were still not complete. “We hope the court will share our view, which is that the project was supposed to have 4300 RDP houses in the area, but so far only 1000 are completed. We are hopeful for a favourable verdict because some of the people we have allocated homes to are the same people the municipality was going to allocate them to.” Bapela said they had placed people in the houses before, but they were being sold illegally while some of them were used to commit crimes. A couple of weeks ago he accused area councillor Sipho Maila of having knowledge of a scam that sold houses illegally. However, Maila rubbished the allegations, and Nkomo challenged anyone with evidence to come forward. Bapela said the occupants would sleep with their fingers crossed tonight as they do not wish to spend the festive season looking for other places to stay or ultimately risk dealing with the Red Ants. Meanwhile, the court has already demonstrated that it did not fear issuing eviction orders against scores of people. In September, an eviction order was issued to  illegal informal settlers in Atteridgeville. On December 4 and 5, the Red Ants and Pretoria South West Sheriff Sabeir Ismail removed 12000 shacks during heavy rain. A violent protest ensued but, ultimately, the shacks were removed.