Four years later, she was in another accident, which left her completely paralysed. She says her disability will not define her and she is instead determined to make a difference and leave her footprint "in the sands of time". Her first accident was in 2006 when she and friends were driving home from a function. She says a speeding taxi hit the car on the left passenger side where she was seated.  Edwina was left with broken pelvic bones and spent a month in hospital. She was able to regain mobility after six months. “I think the first accident was preparing me and teaching me how to live as a person with a disability, because after the second accident I was at peace, which is why I feel like it was my calling to be disabled,” said Makgamatha. In 2010, the 33-year-old was  involved in another car accident and this time, there would be permanent damage. She and the father of her children had gone to get essentials for their cattle, and the accident was a hit and run. “I flew out of the window and broke my spine," she said. "I spent three weeks in ICU and three months in a rehab centre. We tend to curse the bad times in our lives, forgetting that God said everything works for the good of those who love Him and have been called according to His purpose, and everything includes the bad things we encounter.  "It's all part of the divine plan and frankly, if it were not for my accidents, I would not have thought of the idea,” she said. The idea was for Thusanang Enabling Support Services, the brainchild of this mother of two (aged 8 and 9), who said she would not feel sorry for herself or allow her disability to dictate the manner in which she lives life. The company gives support such as medicine, and counselling services to disabled people after they have been discharged from hospital. It works with the Road Accident Fund to educate disabled people on how to use their payout. “They need to understand that this money has to buy them a wheelchair, modify their home to make it wheelchair friendly, buy medicine supplies, and they will basically also have to live off it, and that is where we come in,” she said. Before the second accident, Makgamatha worked as a race co-ordinator for ships. She said she felt she had to learn more about her disability and joined the National Council for People with Disabilities. “We went to a school in Limpopo and got into a room full of disabled children. I cried, and told myself that if I feel sorry for myself, then how are the kids supposed to feel? I genuinely cannot stand disability in anyone and it is worse when it comes to kids,” she said emotionally. Despite the children being weak and fragile, she said all had their own unique strengths and were "soldiers in their own right”. Makgamatha said she felt as if it was her calling to be disabled, because she was never depressed or suicidal after her accidents. She was just driven to inspire people. “I still dress up, wear my heels and make-up because my personality has not changed. I have always loved looking good ,” she said. The single mother said her “condition” has not in any way affected her duties as a mother or her children’s view of her. “My kids may be mocked at school at times, but my disability has not changed the way they view me. They know mom the way she is and answer some kids by saying 'Even if she is in a wheelchair, she can still drive us around and still runs her own business', so it is amazing.  "They are so proud of me and they continue to shower me with love,” she said.