Unlike in the past when the party would allow Zuma to exhaust legal avenues on many matters, yesterday the ruling party called on him to implement the scathing unanimous judgment that he set up a commission of inquiry into state capture without delay. This was as the president readied himself to give his last speech as leader of the ANC at the opening of the governing party’s crucial elective conference on Saturday. Zuma was also slapped with two personal costs orders - which the DA estimates to be in excess of R6million - for his conduct during litigation before and after former public protector Thuli Madonsela’s State of Capture report was released in October last year. Gauteng Judge President Dunstan Mlambo and judges Phillip Boruchowitz and Wendy Hughes found that Zuma was reckless and unreasonable when he decided to review Madonsela’s report, in which she recommended that a commission of inquiry be established. ”The review application was a clear non-starter and the president was seriously reckless in pursuing it as he has done. His conduct falls far short of the high standard expressed in Section 195 of the constitution,” reads the judgment. The judges found that Zuma’s statements to the media and in Parliament expressed an unequivocal intention to establish a commission of inquiry and therefore pre-empted any justifiable basis to challenge Madonsela’s remedial action.  This pointed to the reckless misconception underpinning the president’s application seeking to review and set aside the remedial action. The president has been directed to appoint a judge handpicked by Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng to head the commission within 30 days. Zuma was told by the judges that his powers are not untrammelled and that his legal challenge resulted in further delaying of the resolution of state capture allegations. The ANC welcomed the judgment, saying it brought the country a step closer to the implementation of its national executive committee resolution directing that the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture be established without delay.  