He boldly claims he is the best in South Africa when it comes to winning races in his age group, and even challenges youngsters to run with him.  He is a member of the Runners Store club in Soshanguve, and proud of his achievements.  He has medals and certificates that can take up all the space on a coffee table. Raphulu started entering races at the age of 40. This week he said his 31-year participation in running had been a bumpy ride, as he was forced to stop training during some years.  However, he said running remained his passion. “I started this journey when I was 40 in 1986 in the veteran group, an age group for 40 to 49-year-olds, and after I won a race I told myself “this is working for me, so why stop?”. “I held it down for nine years until I stopped running for no reason in 1995 at the age of 49.  “In 2001, I was shot in the leg in an attempted hijacking as I entered my yard. “I spent four weeks at George Mukhari Academic Hospital where a young doctor told me I would never run again, but honestly I did not listen and after they inserted a metal pin in my leg, which irritated me a few years later, I told them to take it out.  “That is when I started to run again, nine years after the shooting, and from there I have been unstoppable,” he said. Raphulu recently bagged the first prize in the Mandela Remembrance Walk, to become the winner of a 10km run for his age group - 70 to 79 years. He said he aimed to run any 10km race in under 44 minutes. “Anything above that is a disappointment.” He collected his best memorabilia when he won the Soweto Marathon and when he won the South African Championships in 2015. His schedule for training, for a 71-year-old, is hectic.  On Tuesdays he runs 300m uphill, on a Wednesday he does a 10km run, on Thursdays he does his speed work, on Fridays he runs 15km, on Saturdays he runs for 10km and on Sundays he does a 30 to 40km run. He said he did all that on a schedule and at his own pace, saying what is “killing young athletes today is that they want to be fast and have speed”. “These youngsters always want to be ahead, but the body must be conditioned, which is why I run these long distances and sometimes just jog,” he said. His diet includes vegetables, a little bit of meat, noodles and a couple of beers once in awhile.  Raphulu advised youngsters to have a limit when drinking alcohol if they wanted to maintain healthy minds and bodies.  Among his family of four children and nine grandchildren, he jokingly said he was the fastest of them all because when he raced with them he always left them behind. He wants young people to be healthy like him because, he said, he was as healthy as a fox at 71. He takes no medication for any illness and the Soshanguve champion said that, in two years’ time, he would like to register for a course in training, so that he could train young people in his community to be the best runners in South Africa and maybe the world.