With multi-pronged challenges facing the party,  the man who steered the ship - executive mayor Solly Msimanga - undoubtedly emerged as the principal political actor in the capital. His was a baptism of fire in April during the State of the Capital Address (Soca), where he was scheduled to deliver his maiden Soca speech. But the date coincided with the anniversary of the death by execution of Struggle hero Solomon Kalushi Mahlangu and ANC councillors demanded it become a political rally. ANC councillor Joel Masilela caught our attention when he appeared barefoot with a rope tied around his neck to symbolise Mahlangu’s hanging. This was an ANC’s tactic to disrupt the opening of a council sitting designed to outline the city's service delivery agenda for the year ahead. Msimanga instructed then chief of the Tshwane Metro Police Department (TMPD) Steve Ngobeni to remove rowdy ANC councillors from the chamber.  Ngobeni refused, saying the order was illegal. This landed him in hot water, and Msimanga later confirmed his relationship with Ngobeni had hit “rock-bottom”. Ngobeni was suspended for a day, and subsequently he and the city parted ways. Efforts to remove the ANC councillors from the chamber failed and speaker of council Katlego Mathebe reconvened the council sitting at a different venue. ANC caucus leader Mapiti Matsena denied that his party councillors had intended to cause chaos at the Soca - all they wanted, he said, was for the council to honour the legacy of Mahlangu for at least 15 minutes. A month later the mood in the council was relatively calm when Msimanga took centre stage at the Sammy Marks Council Chambers to table his first city budget. He had earlier delivered an adjustment budget for 2016/17, which was unanimously approved by all parties. At the time he explained that the move paved the way to stabilising the capital's finances to deliver better quality services to residents. Msimanga said the previous ANC-led city administration was responsible for the R2billion deficit inherited by his DA-led administration. This deficit created a funding gap which Msimanga sought to address within the adjustments budget.  The tabling of a budget in May got the support of all parties - including the ANC - which said it supported it because it had won most city wards during the municipal elections. Matsena had said the ANC was looking to see whether the “DA-EFF coalition” would pass a pro-poor budget in the next financial period. But, Msimanga hit back at Matsena, saying the DA was first fixing the mess created by the ANC.  Msimanga appeared to stay on top of issues most of the year, but he may have been rattled - even if he did not show it - by the fragile relationship with the DA's power-sharing partner, the EFF. Ideologically, the two parties are very different, and this manifested when the EFF used an educational visit by Afrikaans children from the Voortrekkers movement to a council meeting, to question the selection criteria of an all-white group. The group leader said the idea was to foster tolerance, but the children had to leave the council while the adults argued about it.  On two different occasions, EFF city councillors snubbed council sittings. The ANC took advantage of the EFF’s absence, instructing its members to stage a walk-out, citing it would not support the DA to run the city. The EFF’s first stayaway was linked to problems the party was having with the DA in Nelson Mandela Bay metro - where there was also a power-sharing arrangement - following the axing of that city's deputy mayor Mongameli Bobani. The second was linked to its displeasure with the way the job recruitment drive for the Expanded Public Works (EPW) programme was handled by the DA administration.  On the day of the council sitting, some EFF members embarked on a campaign to recruit new members; others went to canvass for votes during the by-elections at Matsimaholo Local Municipality in the Free State. The recent utterance by EFF leader Julius Malema, who reportedly claimed Msimanga had “white supervisors”, bear testament to a shaky pact between the two parties. Msimanga had to put out a few fires, literally and figuratively, notably when he met residents of Mahube Valley in Mamelodi. Those in formal housing were fighting with those in informal ones over services such as electricity, and his quoted statements about building a wall between them had dire consequences.  He had to promise to find a long-term solution to the myriad problems faced by residents and prevent protests becoming violent.  He received demands from various groups, including Schubart Park residents, and travelled the breadth of the city to see new developments which will go some way to alleviate the dire housing shortage. After some time in office, Msimanga was able to make some key appointments, including that of communication expert Moeketsi Mosola as city manager to replace Jason Ngobeni, who resigned last year after the ANC lost the capital city. Msimanga also announced his choice of former Sunnyside station commander Johanna Nkomo as the new chief of metro police. Although the appointment was welcomed by all political parties, it  was not concluded without stinging criticism from the ANC, which called on the DA to recruit from within the Metro Police, rather than the SA Police Services. Earlier, the SA Municipal Workers Union (Samwu) also rallied against the appointment, saying it was not correct to include policing/military background as a requisite skill for the position. Msimanga’s efforts to extricate the city from the controversial prepaid electricity smart meter contract - which dated back to 2013 and cost the city millions - led to court. In October, the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, declared the contract between the city and PEU Capital Partners unlawful.  The mayor also decided to sell the mayoral residence, a house not used by him or his predecessor as a residence and whose renovations undertaken by the ANC-led metro was another bone of contention for the DA. There were many other moments too, such as creating jobs, oversight visits, the handing over of houses to those in need, bicycles for patrols in Hatfield, the launch of a City Helpline, and food and gifts for children at Christmas. With 2018 around the corner Msimanga would surely give himself a pat on the back for having done what he could to deliver on his promises - but the work is far from over and a busy, challenging year lies ahead.