He was replying to an open letter written by local councillor Floyd Thema to him and executive mayor Solly Msimanga. In the letter, Thema expressed his frustration over what he termed an ongoing water crisis faced by residents in Ward 32 since October last year. “It’s December, a happy season  and kids and everyone are home for the festive holidays. We can’t drink, bath or even flush our toilets,” he wrote. But, Moss said the water problem in the township was a complicated issue, which involved a group of businesspeople contesting a tender awarded to the main contractor. Moss said a group calling itself the business forum had joined forces with some community members to stop trucks trying to deliver water to the area. “Ga-Rankuwa's water is supplied with tankers by a contractor who has contracts with subcontractors. There is a contractual dispute between the two parties” he said. Despite the efforts made by the City to address the problem, Moss said there were residents who continued to bear the brunt of the shortage. Some local residents had also shown a hostile attitude to the contractor and subcontractors, he said. “Some community members have even stopped some of the subcontractors from supplying water. They are bringing their vested interest into the issue.” Thema had accused Msimanga of taking advantage of the residents’ kindness and humility. “We do not want to revolt using physical strength as there would be casualties. We are a peace-loving community. The shocking horrific treatment we are receiving from the municipality leaves much to be desired,” he said. It was unacceptable that township folks would go without water for three to four days a week, he said. “This is unacceptable and an unpleasant historic condition. It’s barbaric and shows no love and care from the City to the people of Ward 32. We are encountering many problems currently, including sewage, waste removals, roads and stormwater; no humps, high municipal bills, just to mention a few. And there seems to be no apology or action to resolve the immediate complications,” he wrote. But reacting to Thema’s statement, Moss said: “It is a little bit disingenuous to try to say it is the fault of the City while there are some community members behind it.” The tragedy of the situation was that residents suffered due to a quarrel by business people over contracts, Moss said. The City had a policy in place to address the plight of residents starting from next year, he said. In terms of the policy, the City would install standpipes reticulation in areas where there was bulk water supply, he said. Meanwhile, the City has asked residents of Rooihuiskraal to reduce water usage immediately owing to reservoirs with critically low water levels. The City said: “Reservoir levels need to normalise and residents are therefore urged to only use water for basic use. "If the levels do not normalise, Rooihuiskraal residents will continue to experience water shortages.” According to the City, water tankers were stationed at the local clinic and Sasol garage along Uitsig Road.