Dlamini Zuma received overwhelming support from branches, with 433 nominations while Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa received 193 branch votes during the province’s Provincial General Council meeting yesterday. This was as Limpopo became the latest province to overwhelmingly nominate Ramaphosa to take over the leadership of the ANC. The ANC in the Limpopo held its Provincial General Council in Polokwane where consolidated nominations by branches saw Ramaphosa receiving 391 nominations out of 502 branches that participated while Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma received 104 nominations. While Ramaphosa announced ANC NEC member Naledi Pandor as his preferred deputy when he released his slate, none of the provinces have endorsed Pandor. Yesterday, Limpopo, like Gauteng, among others, threw its weight behind another presidential hopeful, Lindiwe Sisulu, to be Ramaphosa's deputy. All other candidates on Ramaphosa’s slate received overwhelming backing, including former KwaZulu-Natal chairman Senzo Mchunu as secretary general; current ANC secretary general Gwede Mantashe as national chairperson; and Gauteng chairman Paul Mashatile as treasurer general. The Limpopo PGC got off to a shaky start as jubilant supporters of Ramaphosa sang songs praising him and his campaign. Appeals from political leaders drew blanks as delegates booed some of the speakers at the beginning of plenary proceedings. One member who was disgruntled with provincial chairman Stan Mathabatha was ejected from the venue after repeatedly shouting and pointing fingers at him, accusing him of being lenient towards Ramaphosa’s supporters. ANC deputy secretary-general Jessie Duarte slammed what she branded as deep-seated intolerance and hatred among party members in the province. “It is unfortunate that the level of competitiveness reaches a point where people do not understand that this is a democratic process. I’m concerned that it is a symptom of the kind of lack of political depth that we have taken to heart in discussing the real matters,” Duarte said. The party needed to be united, she said, regardless of who wins the race at the party’s national elective congress, as they would still need to be supported by the party’s rank-and-file to take the organisation forward. “Without the ANC, that person will not lead for very long. With a broken ANC, that person has no base,” she said. The party’s top brass would have zero tolerance for those who sought to collapse the conference through disruptors. “We believe that the generals of disruption are among us. We will remove disruptors from our national conference,” Duarte said. Mathabatha said he was happy with the outcome of the PGC, adding that the provincial leadership would now persuade other provinces to rally behind Ramaphosa. He said the party needed a leadership with high moral values and the capacity to deal with the corrupt conduct of those in public office. In what could have been seen as a swipe at Zuma, Mathabatha warned that the new leader must not be above the party. “The leadership of the party is not ownership of the party. “Members must be able to call you to order when you are wrong, without fear that they will lose their jobs,” Mathabatha said. Yesterday ANC KZN chairperson Sihle Zikalala slammed Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa’s vision for the country’s economy - dubbed “the new deal” - calling it the emergence of a dangerous tendency of individuals elevating themselves above party policies. Speaking at the party provincial general council yesterday, Zikalala warned delegates to be vigilant against “unknown inventions”. “The PGC must engage on this kind of behaviour where individuals opportunistically invent some new neo-liberal policies which are in contrast to the adopted policies of the movement.  “There is no policy of the new deal ever discussed by any structures of the ANC,” he said. The new deal promises to grow the country’s economy by up to 3% next year and 5% by 2023, and create a million jobs in the next five years. The targets and projections were unveiled by Ramaphosa last month as a vision to revive the manufacturing sector, free higher education for the poor, support small and medium enterprises and strengthen state institutions. Zikalala said the new deal was a policy that emerged from “nowhere”and if embraced was dangerous for the party. He added that delegates attending the 54th national elective conference should be guided by the resolutions of the national policy conference instead.