Or think of how the brimful stadium suddenly displayed visible gaps once the Kiwis made sure that the Springbok Sevens side wouldn’t progress further than the semi-final. But none of those fans would have been more disappointed than the Blitzboks themselves. It should also be said, 
however, that the Blitzboks 
let themselves down on day two. On day one, the hosts convincingly beat Russia, France and Kenya (yes, the first two aren’t the toughest opposition - but in Sevens, anything can happen). But on day two, in their comeback quarter-final win over Fiji, some of the mistakes that would later prove costly showed. The South Africans came back from a 21-12 half-time deficit to secure the victory, and after the match, coach Neil Powell said he hoped that would be their only wake-up call on the day. But it wasn’t. And when the Blitzboks ran out against New Zealand, their continued impatience with ball in hand, their loss 
of composure and the uncharacteristically sketchy defence, all contributed to their campaign ending earlier than expected. The sense of “team” that the Blitzboks usually radiate was missing as well and replaced with more individual play, while their failure to look after the ball - whether it was due to knock-ons, forced passes or conceding possession in whatever other way - resulted in a number of missed scoring opportunities and the opposition pouncing on those mistakes. And following their bronze-medal finish against Canada later on Sunday, skipper Philip Snyman - the only South African to be included in the Dream Team for the Cap Town leg - said that their home leg was the only one recently that didn’t feel like they played as a team. “I think it was the first time in many tournaments that we didn’t feel we played as a team. The guys were more individual, and overall I’m not happy with the way we performed,” Snyman said. “I’m happy that we could finish with a win, but I’m not happy with how we performed in the tournament. “Unfortunately, we didn’t stick to our game plan and our structures. We’re not focused on results, only on our processes, and unfortunately we can’t tick the box of processes in this tournament. “We had our chances in the New Zealand game and unfortunately we missed one or two tries and they capitalised on our mistakes.” Snyman also said that there could be no excuses made on their part, and that it’s all about shifting their focus to the Sydney event (January 26-28) after their December break. “It was a hectic week in the build-up to the home tournament, but we don’t want to make any excuses. I think New Zealand were better than us today and I think they’re going to be capable of winning a couple of tournaments this season,” he said. “We pride ourselves that we can never be faulted for our effort, and I think the guys showed that. There was nothing wrong with our effort, everybody put a lot of effort in, but when you don’t stick to the gameplan or the structure you let other teams into the game or give them opportunities. “It was massive, the crowd were tremendous right from the first game we played. It was a full stadium like every other game we played in. “Even when we lost to New Zealand we got a massive cheer from the crowd. They showed that they still support us. “One bad loss doesn’t make you a bad team, so we will go back and have a look at the tournament. “We definitely have a lot of stuff that we can work on. The guys are going to have some family time now, and hopefully when we get back in January we’ll regroup and put it behind us and focus on the rest of the season.”