Such is the case with the “Mother of melodies” township better known as Mamelodi, established in June 1953. There were just 16 houses during that time, and the area was at the time referred to as Vlakfontein. The township earned the name Mamelodi after it was given to then-president Paul Kruger as the community was enthralled by his rare ability to whistle and imitate birds. Chairperson of the heritage preservation organisation Mosito wa Mamelodi, Aubrey Mogase, said Kruger, who was president of the Transvaal Republic - the Transvaal Boer Republic at the time - would go around the area on horseback, all the while whistling. In 1962 the township was given the name Mamelodi at the behest of the township’s first mayor Hezekiel Mothibe (HM) Pitje, who also has a stadium in Mamelodi West named after him. Mogase says sticking to its musical heritage, the area has become known as the township of jazz, with the Malombo Jazz group comprising guitarist Philip Tabane, flautist Abe Cindi and traditional drummer and percussionist Julian Bahula all coming from there. The group, according to Mogase, played a different sound of Malopo through a mixture of Pedi drums and African folk music. He said the group adopted the name Malombo in 1964 after they won the Castle Lager Jazz festival in Soweto. Other legendary musicians who come from the township include singer-songwriter Vusi “The Voice” Mahlasela, jazz musician Don Laka, jazz guitarist Moss Mogale and the Units. Besides producing musical talents, the township is also home to Ernest Levi Cole, who was South Africa’s first freelance photographer. Although Cole was born in Eersterust, he and his family were moved in 1960 to Mamelodi at the height of the Group Areas Act. Cole’s greatest work was in photographic essays, set in the 1950s and 1960s, depicting the inhumane conditions under which black South Africans were forced to live during apartheid. Solomon Kalushi Mahlangu, an operative of the ANC militant wing, uMkhonto weSizwe, who was convicted of murder and hanged in 1979, is yet another son of the proud Mamelodi. In 1953 there was a campaign to name it after a Mr Cocks Cocksville but residents refused and stuck to  their chosen one - Mamelodi. Although now dilapidated, the township also bears the memory of Dr Nico Smith’s “pampoen huis”.  Smith and his wife Ellen were among the first white people to abandon their homes and move permanently to the township in 1985. Smith was a South African church minister and opponent of the apartheid system. He was also a professor of theology at the University of Stellenbosch. His home became known as the “pampoen house” because of 
the odd and fascinating structure of its roof. Mogase also boasted about the lively atmosphere in Mamelodi, an area with a number of pubs and hang-outs. These include the annual jazz festival, which brings musicians and revellers to the Moretele resort in their numbers to mark the start of spring every year. It also has the popular pub Jack Budha and Tbo Café which literally closes down Mashabela and Tsweu streets every other weekend. Mogase said although townships often carried a stigma of dilapidated infrastructure, service delivery protests and reports of crime, they were rich in history and had a lot more in talent to give. He said: “We are the only people who can honour, celebrate and keep the proud history of our townships alive. We should not wait for someone else to do it for us.” Social media users have also taken to highlighting what their township is best known for, with one user writing Mamelodi has VMash, Senthaolele, Sundowns football club, Moretele Park, Jack Budha, Solomon Mahlangu and Don Laka.  Popular young artist Lady Zamar, real name Yamikani Janet Banda is one of the latest from the township to hit the South African entertainment scene. She made her debut with a song titled Mamelodi.