The series, aired on Mzansi Magic since early October, has amassed a massive following.  In so doing, viewers have pushed The Imposter to the top of the trend list and holding steady almost every Sunday since it hit the small screen. People have expressed mixed emotions about it, with many saying they were impressed with the actors, but not too taken by the storyline.   Produced by Ferguson Films, the 13-part drama follows a story of twin sisters Mantwa and Matshepo Tau who find themselves at war. One of the sisters breaks out of prison after 17 years and takes over the wonderful life of her identical twin, who is responsible for her incarceration. It features some of the country’s most notable actors such as Thishiwe Ziqubu, who takes the lead portraying the roles of Matshepo and her twin sister Mantwa, alongside Mpumi Mpama (Reginald), Khulu Skenjana (Caesar), Omuhle Gela (Lerato), Zenzo Nqobe (Junior), Mary Twala (Gogo), Owen Sejake (Warden Moloisi) to name a few.  A character that keeps many glued to their screens is Caesar, who portrays the role of an mentally unstable man who is being used by the former jailbird’s sister, Mantwa, to do her dirty work.  He also goes around killing people, but fans constantly take to Twitter to praise him for nailing the character and being a great actor.  @Ultra_Kem said: “Forget the dull storyline, the acting could’ve saved this show, but only Caesar came to the set.” @swazi_swazies said: “Caesar is my hero only reason I watch The Imposter.” @Iamanttonet wrote said: “Give credit where it’s due. Clap your hands for Mantwa and Caesar’s acting skills.” Viewers said he deserved an award for pulling off a role so “stupid yet to powerful”. @TsholoMothei said: “If Caesar doesn’t win the South African Film and Television Awards then angazi bafethu. I literally watch #TheImposter because of him.”  General reactions were positive and negative. @princematyeka said she only watched it as she had to finish what she started. “We don’t watch the #TheImposter because we enjoy it...” Tlalane @TlalaneLetlhaku said she watched it but, wasn’t impressed: “This show annoys me so much but I watch it every Sunday.”  It also attracted some who threw their weight behind the evil twin: “Am I the only one who loves Mantwa?” asked @Zengi. @importer2 replied: “...she is bauss, no one can come between her and the fortunes amassed by her sister, and if she were to be caught and returned to prison, why would we watch it?”