RAPULA MOATSHE THE Olivenhoutbosch residents burst into songs of joy after the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria dismissed an urgent application brought by the Human Settlements Department against their illegal occupation of empty RDP houses at Extension 27 last month. Residents marched in Madiba Street, sang and ululated as they held up banners with the woerds "South Africa National Civic Organisation". That was after Judge Neil Tuchten had passed a ruling in support of an agreement by legal counsels of two implicated parties, which essentially prohibited the evictions of residents from the houses. A community legal representative attorney Andries Nkome said the urgent court interdict could not be granted because the applicants did not formally state in their court documents that they wanted people to be evicted from the houses. According to Nkome, the department’s lawyers only mentioned the intention to evict people from houses during oral arguments in court. “It is an interim relief but what they have made a mistake on was that they had wanted to remove people from the premises but they never said that in their papers. So, it is for that reason that this order cannot be granted,”he said. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  He said the judgment dismissed the urgent application that the state had initiated against the Olivenhoutbosch people. “They would remain in the properties that they have already occupied. If they so want to evict them they must bring a fresh application because this one has been flawed from the start,” Nkome said. Tuchten congratulated both legal counsels for amicably sorting out the matter and said their agreement settled the matter. Reacting to the ruling, community leader Peter Seolela said: "It is a very good judgment because it shows that there is no amount of intimidation or corruption that can influence the list of beneficiaries.” He said the judgment was good news to people, who had applied for houses many years ago. “The judgement is a sign that if the government officials would not render services to the people and instead opt to sell houses - the people are going to serve themselves. The people must now relax and use money to pay rent and to buy themselves groceries,” he said. Commenting on the likelihood by the department to produce a list of rightful beneficiaries at a later stage, Seolela said: “I can’t  be sure as to who are the rightful beneficiaries because the system of the province is no longer the way it is supposed to be. Even if they could produce the list of beneficiaries there would always be questions around it - if it is really made up of  the rightful beneficiaries." He said the department had claimed that it allocated houses to 112 rightful beneficiaries in December last year. “But those in the houses are foreigners who don’t even have IDs. The question is: Since when has the government been reponsible for giving houses to beneficiaries without SA IDs? The list the department is likely to produce cannot be trusted. So it means that the department must start working with the steering committee around the issue of the list to produce the list that can be trusted by the community,”he said. Those who were allocated RDP houses were tenants living in rented backyard dwellings in the area. The process to allocate houses was led by members of the steering committee, who handed over house keys to at least 1000 people. The allocation took place after more than 2000 people threatened to occupy empty houses by force. The people blamed the government for making them wait for too long for houses. Tshwane Housing MMC Mandla Nkomo said all in all 1000 houses were built by the provincial government and 112 were allocated by the City last year.