In the years since I’ve moved on from reporting on cases in the magistrate’s courts to the high court. I was there when the death penalty was abolished and when abortion was legalised, I have covered political cases and had my fair share of interesting criminal cases, including the Oscar Pistorius case and attendant media circus.  In all these years, I’ve sat in the public gallery, taking notes - a passive observer. And then this year I suddenly became an active participant in a legal process.  My handbag was stolen during a break-in while I was on holiday at Chaka’s Rock in June. It was a bit of an ordeal and a huge schlep to cancel my cards and replace what had been taken.  Once that was done I thought no more of it until a few weeks ago, when I got a call from Warrant Officer Munsamy of the Umhlali police. They had caught the guys who allegedly stole my bag - and would I come down to KwaZulu-Natal to testify against them? I said no, I didn’t want to.  I didn’t want the hassle and I wasn’t sure whether I wanted to be the person to put two guys behind bars, even if just for a while, for a minor crime.  I wanted to withdraw the case, but Munsamy would have nothing of it. Come down, he said, make a holiday of it. And then I got the subpoena - to appear in Court B of the Stanger/KwaDukuza Magistrate’s Court on November 28, 2017.  A subpoena is a universal legal language, and a great equaliser - you can’t ignore it, whether you’re an MEC, a judge, a journalist or Jane Soap. And that’s how I found myself in the witness stand of Court B, doing my civic duty.  We left the hotel early that Tuesday morning to be at court at 8.30am, as the subpoena stipulated. The voice on the GPS sounded as confident as it always does as we were told to turn left off the highway towards Groutville. We followed her directions like devoted disciples as she led us deeper into the township where Chief Albert Luthuli grew up. There were numerous signs for the Luthuli Museum but little else. “You have reached your destination,” she proclaimed after a while. Our “destination” was a road with no name. On either side of us was veld. We drove around some more and finally found the police station where a policeman offered to go with us to the court.  “There is too much crime here,” he said. “Too much.” He told us to park as near as possible to the court building, then started negotiating with a guard to take extra special care of our car. The GP number plates, he said, made your car an easy target.  Great, I thought. Here I am doing my civic duty to fight crime and my car might get stolen while I am at it.  He led us through the maze-like passageways of the building to Court B, then disappeared.  We took seats in the public gallery and I suddenly realised I was nervous. In all my years as a court reporter, I had never once given a thought to how stressful it must be for a witness to take the stand.  As the prosecutor took me through my statement, I felt like I was the accused.  The court got down to business shortly after 9am. I was impressed with its efficiency as it swiftly dealt first with postponements, then sentencings. One of the accused in my case had been granted bail, the other not. As the court called our case, Accused No 1 shuffled in through a side door. I avoided eye contact. Accused No 2 stood up, and I saw he had been sitting next to us the whole time. It was surreal, and a little scary. I was in the stand no more than 10 minutes, answering basic questions about what had happened that night and how I identified my bag and belongings when they were returned to me. I had practised the previous day to say “Your Worship” rather than “Your Warship” - it’s very easy to make that mistake. In the end I was so nervous I didn’t call the magistrate anything. As we walked out of the building into the blazing afternoon, I felt neither joy nor relief. I take no pleasure in knowing that these two guys will probably go to jail and that I had helped to put them there.  I do take comfort, however, in knowing that I had helped the likes of Warrant Officer Munsamy: dedicated cops work against tough odds, and with little pay, to catch the bad guys and try to make sure they pay for their crime. But still; I am not sure I’d do it again.  I far prefer to cover court cases, not be part of them.  Venter is a specialist High Court Reporter for the Pretoria News and Independent Media.