A team of five young black female PhD students in chemistry and physics at the university said they were driven by the call to inspire and promote science technology, engineering and mathematics (Stem) to the youth that had been disproportionately marginalised and disenfranchised from such fields. To achieve this, the young women started a foundation called Green-Stem Foundation, which provides mentoring, culturally relevant curricula, skills development and career guidance. One of them, Nqobile Xaba, said the hackathon was aimed at teaching the pupils how to develop a code and equip them to go back to their communities and use those skills. “The aim of the programme is to have a group of pupils we work with see the growth on how it can impact because at the end of the day, we have to be able to measure their progress. We partner with local schools and they were willing to work with us. “We choose schools based on disadvantage, we wanted schools which we would give a head start to. We have to reach out to learners to show them it is possible to come out successful from their backgrounds. Our goal is to be a force in the development of educated, skilled and employable youth. “Most of us come from disadvantaged backgrounds we know what it’s like not to have access to information, it’s a disadvantage because when you get to tertiary institutions other students are ahead and on the other hand we started on a point of learning. We want to give disadvantaged children a head start in their studies,” she said. Also at the event was Israel Ajeyanjo, project leader at the mayor’s office in New York, and his brother Daniel, an Ios developer, who offered tutorials to the children about building programmes and applications. “I’m joining a movement of people who want to inspire youth, to explore the floors of Stem by showing how they can use them as tools to transform their communities,” said Israel. “We are going to do so as we put together a quick one on one tutorial to show them that they can build applications and programmes, and they probably will need to go home and study a lot more and go on to tertiary education and also get their PhD, knowing that they can type a couple of things on a computer and get inspired to find a laptop and go to the library and learn more. “This is not a one-time thing. I see this all across South Africa and spreading through the continents, this is inspiring because it builds their confidence. I’m really excited about what is going to happen in the future, I’m looking forward to coming back here next year to see growth.”  Pupil Mogau Kgoale, 17, said: “After learning all that about IT and computers I’m inspired to one day develop software to solve problems for astronauts.”   