Hassan Fadlallah, the spokesperson for the militant group’s parliamentary bloc, said yesterday that the US announcement reaffirms the only way to restore rights is through armed “resistance”. Lebanon is technically at war with Israel. Hezbollah attacks forced Israel to withdraw from southern Lebanon in 2000, and the group went to war with Israel again in 2006. Fadlallah said the decision is likely to have “catastrophic repercussions” on regional and international stability, urging Arabs and Muslims to move fast to respond. He said President Donald Trump’s decision “intentionally” bypassed the UN and international resolutions and was a “rude belittling of the Arab and Muslim worlds’ people and states”. EU foreign policy chief Federica Mogherini says Trump’s decision to recognise Jerusalem as the capital of Israel is worrying and could send the region back to darker times. Mogherini said Trump’s Jerusalem announcement “has a very worrying potential impact”. She says that “the announcement has the potential to send us backwards to even darker times than the one we are already living in”. Mogherini called for calm and appealed for the “the status quo of the holy places” in Jerusalem to be preserved. She also warned that Trump’s “move could diminish the potential role that the United States could play in the region and create more confusion around this”. The Russian Foreign Ministry has expressed concern about the US administration’s recognition of Jerusalem as Israel’s capital and warned it could destabilise the region. The ministry reaffirmed Moscow’s view that the status of Jerusalem could only be settled through talks between the Palestinians and Israel in line with the UN resolutions. In a statement released yesterday, it said the US move has caused a “serious concern” in Moscow. It said that “a new US position on Jerusalem risks exacerbating the situation in Palestinian-Israeli relations and in the region as a whole”. The ministry called on all parties involved to “show restraint and refrain from actions fraught with dangerous and uncontrollable consequences”. Hundreds of Islamists have rallied in major cities across Pakistan, condemning Trump for declaring the city of Jerusalem as Israel’s capital. The demonstrators dispersed peacefully after yesterday’s rallies in the capital, Islamabad. Similar anti-US rallies were also held in Karachi, the country’s largest city, and in Peshawar, the capital of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province bordering Afghanistan, as well as in the city of Multan in Punjab province. The rallies came a day after Trump’s announcement angered the Muslims across the world. Islamabad has asked the US to reconsider any move that alters the legal and historical status of Jerusalem. Muslim-majority Pakistan has already reiterated its support for the Palestinians, who claim east Jerusalem as the capital of their hoped-for state The al-Qaeda-linked extremist group, al-Shabaab, is urging Muslims to take up weapons in response to Trump’s recognition of Jerusalem as Israel’s capital. The group’s spokesperson Sheikh Ali Mohamud said it calls “on all Muslims to raise arms and defend the blessed al-Aqsa from the Zionist occupiers supported by America, because what was taken by force can only be restored by force”. His message was carried by the Somalia-based group’s news agency. Al-Shabaab, the deadliest Islamic extremist group in Africa, calls the US decision on Jerusalem as “evidence of an escalation in its
aggression against Islam and Muslims”. Al-Shabaab was blamed for the massive truck bombing in Mogadishu in October that killed more than 500 people and was one of the world’s deadliest attacks since 9/11. Hundreds of Palestinians are protesting in cities across the West Bank and Gaza Strip against Trump’s recognition of Jerusalem as Israel’s capital. The demonstrators are burning posters of Trump and of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, as well as American and Israeli flags. Clashes between Israeli security forces and Palestinian protesters were reported at several locations. Rallies were under way yesterday in the West Bank cities of 
Hebron, Ramallah, Nablus, Jenin and Bethlehem. A demonstration was also being held outside the Damascus Gate of Jerusalem’s
Old City. Palestinians called for a general strike yesterday and are preparing for more mass protests today. - AP