The intervention by the exiled Ahmed Ali Saleh, if confirmed, could shift the balance of power yet again. This comes after a dramatic week that saw the elder Saleh abandon his Houthi allies, who killed him and routed his family’s forces from the capital Sana’a in street battles. Yemen’s civil war, pitting the Iran-allied Houthis who control Sana’a against a Saudi-led military alliance backing a government based in the south, has led to one of the world’s worst humanitarian crises, with the United Nations warning of a potential famine that could threaten the lives of millions. Yemen’s capital Sana’a was quiet yesterday after five days of fighting and 25 airstrikes overnight. UN and Red Cross aid flights had landed at the airport, the UN in Yemen said. The funeral of Saleh was expected later yesterday. Arab states, which mainly support the Saudi-backed government, condemned the killing of the veteran ex-leader, saying his death could cause an “explosion” in the country. The death of Saleh, who once compared ruling Yemen to dancing on the heads of snakes, deepens the complexity of the multi-sided war. Much is likely to depend on the future allegiances of his loyalists, who had helped the Houthis, a Shia insurgent movement, seize and hold much of the country until he dramatically switched sides on Saturday.       It was not immediately possible to verify the authenticity of the report of comments by his son, a former leader of the elite Republican Guards who has been exiled in the United Arab Emirates, a country that backs the Saudi-led coalition. “I will lead the battle until the last Houthi is thrown out of Yemen the blood of my father will be hell ringing in the ears of Iran,” Ahmed Ali Saleh was quoted as saying. He called for his father’s backers to “take back Yemen from the Iranian Houthi militias”. The Arabian peninsula’s poorest country, Yemen is one of the most violent fronts in a proxy war between Saudi Arabia and Iran, who have also backed opposing sides in Syria, Iraq and elsewhere across the Middle East.   The Arab League’s general secretariat condemned the Iran-aligned Houthi movement which killed Saleh as a “terrorist organisation” and demanded that the international community view it as such. The Saudi-led coalition had been counting on Saleh’s decision to switch sides to tip the balance of a conflict that had been stalemated on the battlefield. Saleh, who ruled in Sana’a from 1978-2012, had a strong following in Yemen, including army officers and armed tribal leaders who once served under him. His supporters may still be able to have some impact on the war. His son Ahmed Ali has lived under house arrest in the United Arab Emirates, where he once served as ambassador before it joined ally Saudi Arabia to wage war on the Houthis. - Reuters