This is according to Premier David Makhura, also deputy chairperson of the ANC in the province. The much-anticipated 54th ANC national conference starts at Nasrec Expo Centre in Joburg tomorrow. Makhura said the province had taken a stance that it was imperative for democracy to allow South Africans to elect their leaders directly. Provincial delegates were expected to influence the thinking of their fellow participants on the matter during policy discussions. Makhura said: “We must take democracy back to our people. I know that that is the position that Gauteng is putting forward.” He said the province was no longer in favour of the current electoral system in which the electorates would vote for political parties and leave it to parties to appoint leaders. “I think too much power is being given to parties and part of the evolution of our democracy is that the citizens must take back their power,” he said. In the same vein, Makhura said the electoral system must give citizens the power to recall their leaders and not leave the task to MPs. “We need to also reform our political system so that the citizens can recall their presidents, their premiers and the mayor with ease because at the moment it is very difficult,” he said. He said that type of political reform would enhance direct accountability to the citizens. “We also need a constituency system - a mixture of party representation in our constituencies. The parliamentarians need to be held accountable in the constituencies, in which they were elected. That’s what we would call the renewal of our political system,” he said. Makhura said the talk on whether the government should take land back without compensation was unnecessary because the issue had already been dealt with in the Constitution. “We think that we have not explored adequately where the Constitution makes provision for us to have the expropriation of land. We don’t have to amend the Constitution to be able to expropriate land without compensation. It is provided for in the Constitution,” he said. According to him, the problem with land reform was that there was no support to those who had been given land. Makhura cited the Zimbabwean example, which he believed South Africa could emulate to empower new farmers. “The number of new producers you have are Zimbabweans, who are in full production. “All the problems with the Zimbabwean farmers are known. There was a mess. But one key success is that they never gave land to you without making sure that you are going to use it,” he said. He said in South Africa there was a need to ensure “...that those who get a piece of land are assisted to use the land productively”. On the question of leadership, Makhura said: “The ANC needs to give South Africa the leadership that South Africans deserve. That will be the leadership that will be able to tackle these challenges of turning around our economy. “First and foremost, we must turn around the South African economy and not just another growth story, but our economy must grow in a way that is transformative and inclusive.” Although business was worried about political uncertainty in the country, they hoped the incoming ANC leaders would  change it. “We have continued to work with business but everybody says we will get to 2018 with a leadership that is focused to help us sustain this work and even expand.” Makhura said the ANC conference would understand that South Africans were fed up with an economy that excluded people. “They are gatvol about government leaders who work for themselves and their families and not for South Africans.” See Pages 4, 8 and 9