While Mandela’s greatest legacies were his fight against apartheid, championing human rights, and his grace and humility, it was his ardent advocacy for children’s rights that gave birth to the Nelson Mandela Children’s Hospital (NMCH), one of his enduring legacies. As we celebrate the second anniversary of the launch of the NMCH and commemorate the fourth anniversary of his passing, his wish that South Africa and its children are deserving of a hospital that can bring the most sophisticated care, is one of those examples which should prompt us to ask: What kind of legacy are you leaving behind for your family, nation and communities you serve. Each person has a contribution to make. And each person should reflect on the same thing: Do you feel you have done enough to make a lasting impact on the world and those you love? What adjectives will your children, community and nation use to describe you? Will the world be better for you having lived? There is certainty for everyone. We will leave a legacy. What is uncertain is how we will be remembered. We do, however, have the choice and opportunity to uncover our purpose and create a living legacy. Through the Nelson Mandela Foundation, the Nelson Mandela Children’s Fund and the Mandela Rhodes Foundation, Madiba constructed social good and an enduring legacy. The need for a dedicated children’s hospital has been proven and we remain confident of the need to transform healthcare for children, with the support from our partners, SickKids International and Johns Hopkins International. The NMCH has joined the family of other specialist and tertiary paediatric facilities around the world. In line with international standards and best practice of setting up a new hospital, since June this year, we have been engaged in phasing in processes until we reach full capacity of a 200-bed children’s hospital. The state-of-the-art hospital is the result of Madiba’s dream of a society that cares for its children. He knew that instilling good health values into our children today will help ensure that they lead healthy lifestyles for a lifetime. Mandela’s outreach to children ensures his place in the hearts of all of us. So, how do we sustain the legacy that Madiba has bequeathed us? The best way to serve Mandela’s memory is to extend his legacy of love. Ours is to expand on this legacy of love for future generations. Madiba’s quest for living a legacy reminds me of former US president Benjamin Franklin who, when he died in 1790, left £1000 in his will to the cities of Boston and Philadelphia, to be invested for 200 years. Now his gift has grown to more than $8million. Madiba has left the legacy of a hospital worth millions of rand. Few of us are as as far-sighted as Franklin and Madiba. But most of us do want to leave a legacy, either for our children or our favourite organisations. It doesn’t matter how old you are, you have to choose the best way you want to be remembered as the father of our democracy once stated: “What counts in life is not the mere fact that we have lived; it is what difference we have made to the lives of others that will determine the significance of the life we lead.” For me, legacy is about engaging one’s unique talents, skills, aptitudes and character to make a life-enriching difference.  It is about leaving a mark, positively impacting on others and ensuring that when your time comes, you’ve left a legacy that your family, community, nation and even the world can be proud of. Of course, legacy is associated with great legends, heroes, or icons such as Madiba, Barack Obama, Martin Luther King and other luminaries. It is often associated with major contributions, framed forever in the  annals of history just like Madiba’s dream of a children’s hospital. Through the NMCH, Madiba urged us to ask reflective questions: “What have I learnt in life that is worth sharing?; What has my experience taught me about the meaning of life?; What are my passions, talents, skills and traits that allow me to contribute in my sphere of influence?” Just as the NMCH will outlive all of us, leaders such as Madiba are as concerned about long-term sustainability and viability as they are about short-term results. So, all of us have a choice of creating a living legacy. We can be authors of our legacy as Madiba did, or follow an undirected path and contribute something less. Sibongile Mkhabela is chief executive of Nelson Mandela Children’s Hospital Trust.