In addition, Msimanga thanked residents of the capital for their patience during “this year of transition” and asked for support in 2018  “so that together we can build this beautiful city that we all call home”. Makhura appealed to all people of Gauteng going on holidays to take to heart the message of safety at all times.  “I would like to wish those who will be travelling, visiting families and friends to travel safely. This is a very busy time. “There are usually a large number of road fatalities over the festive season. It can be very disastrous for families to lose any member of the family during this time of the year. South Africa loses too many people and this has a devastating impact on economy,” he said. Makhura said road users must always observe the rules of the road and take a rest after travelling a long distance. Many accidents often occurred as a result of reckless driving and driving under the influence of alcohol, he said. “People of Gauteng work very hard, even those who are not formally employed. Throughout the year people are preoccupied with trying to get going. They do require this time to rest,” Makhura said. To those who would be staying in the province, he said: “They need this time to spend with family and friends. Avoid any incident that could lead to a loss of life.  “We would like to see all Gautengers in 2018 back here. I am confident that we will be here to try to shine the light.” He said people must look forward to 2018 with a view to build the province to work for everybody. “Let’s work on our dream of building an economy that works for everybody. We, who are in government, are also trying to unleash the energy in our youth; the energies of our citizens, the energies of those in private sector. “Let’s hold hands and demonstrate that it is only through partnership that we can build a country of our dreams where everybody matters. Everybody’s contribution and wellbeing matters. When others are left out and unemployed, we must be deeply concerned.” Msimanga, meanwhile, urged road users to remember that it was their responsibility to drive safely. “Let us take this festive time to help us appreciate the love in our lives we often take for granted. May the true meaning of the holiday season fill your heart and home with many blessings.” The mayor expressed gratitude to the MMCs, senior management and municipal employees for their hard work and dedication. “I know it is not always easy, and I hope that you take this Christmas break to rest. When you return in 2018, be energised and refreshed, so that together we can continue on this journey of making Tshwane great again,” he said. Council Speaker Katlego Mathebe conveyed good wishes to all the people of the capital city. Mathebe said the work of the DA-led multiparty council had brought change to the lives of the majority of residents. “Lives are changed through the election of ward and party representatives. The passing of new budgets, new by-laws and policies bring a significant change to the material and spiritual conditions of our citizens whom we are privileged to serve,” she said. Cope councillor Nkwane wa Nkwane wished those travelling out of the city a safe journey.  “Do not drink and drive. Be careful on the roads to preserve your own lives and the lives of your fellow human beings,” he said. He urged people to use this time to enjoy “a period of goodwill and friendship”.  “It is the time when most people go on holidays to be with their families.” See Pages 3, 8 & 9