He made it as far as the top three, and yesterday he said losing out did not worry him because he knew the support he had within the communities and the impact it would have once it was distributed. “After the show I felt so energised to go out there and market my product. "I never knew my product was so important and had such an impact on people until the reception of the public, which was overwhelming. "When I went out in the streets I was told about the impact my product would have on people’s lives. "Hangman was good exposure that I intend to use in my favour by speaking to sponsors and the Department of Health,” he said. He invented a diabetes breath analyser when he saw the pain his 3-year-old daughter had to go through when she was diagnosed with diabetes mellitus type 1. Seeing her undergo the painful process of being injected with insulin and the trauma that came with her being pricked for blood to manage her condition was the worst feeling for him. “My daughter was diagnosed with diabetes when she was 3 in 2009. "While living with this problem, I watched as my daughter underwent the pain of not only injections of insulin, but also the pricking of fingers for a drop of blood twice or three times a day in order to monitor and manage this lifelong condition. "I started researching the detection of bio-markers in the breath, which could be linked to blood sugar,” he said. He said the breath analyser was an alternative method of monitoring glucose that avoided the need for pricking. Hangman is a reality show in which South Africa’s best innovators battle it out for a cash prize of R1million. In its finale, which aired on December10, Klerksdorp’s Christo Rossouw, 35, was named the winner for inventing a mosquito repellent lamp, knocking the remaining two finalists out of the competition. He was up against Mwakikunga with his breath analyser and Claire Reid, the inventor of Reel Gardening, a pre-fertilised and pre-spaced colour-coded seed tape, in the finals. Even though he was not crowned South Africa’s best inventor, he believes his invention was still the best as it would alleviate diabetic people’s problems. He therefore appeals for local support and for the public and possible sponsors to help him reach his dream of seeing his product in the market in the coming year.