Every day for 10 hours, the 45-year-old man from Mamelodi, originally from Malawi, sits on the corner of Glenwood and Manitoba streets in Faerie Glen, with a “garage table” where wooden toy cars that he has crafted are placed. He sits with the mahogany wood he procures from his country of origin, super glue, floor polish and a toothbrush creating various types of motor vehicles selling from R150 to R1000. His works also include things like motorbikes, boats, trucks and bulldozers. He said making one car normally took him four to five days. He specialises in making all things wooden and his creations draw the attention of many motorists. Loidi began 20 years ago with the creations, but only started generating an income when he came into the country five years ago. Unlike many foreigners who came to South Africa seeking employment, the father of three said he came into the country to make a living out of his talent. “When I came to South Africa, I wasn’t looking for a job, but to continue with what I had started at home with the purpose of making money. “Many people do what I do back home, therefore, it was not easy for me to have money but here things are a bit different, especially now in December,” he said. Although he admitted some days were rough for him financially, he was impressed with how people appreciated his work. He said: “Since the beginning of this month, business has been good, a lot of people are stopping here to buy these models and it makes me happy. “Some months they don’t buy too much and I struggle financially, but I really appreciate the love people have shown for my work.” He expressed his immense passion for art and said he did not picture himself doing anything else. “I am here every day from 7am until 5pm. “I love and enjoy what I'm doing and I don’t see myself doing anything else. “I’ve never used wood from here. “When the wood is finished I make phone calls and arrange for more wood which gets delivered here by a bus. “The wood is good and makes my work easier.” In addition, he said: “Through this business, I feed my three children and wife. My kids go to school using the money that I make here so when the business is good it means good things for my family too,” he told Pretoria News.