The discourse about inclusive development inevitably touches on the notion of pro-poor innovation as one of the most representative sources of inclusive development. The rationale behind innovation for inclusive development is that in spite of impressive technological advances in the global economy, an important share of the world’s population remains excluded from many of the innovations that improve the quality of life. They also provide access to better income opportunities including basic goods and services such as food, shelter, health, safe water, and electricity. The main source of the exclusion that hinders access to mainstream goods and services is poverty. In a world governed by an economic system in which the power of the richest 1% (wielding more wealth and accompanying privileges than the remaining 99%) drives the dynamics of income distribution, can creativity, innovation, talent and hard work spur new forms of development that help overcome those dizzying inequalities? By providing products and services of high quality at low cost, inclusive innovation is understood as an ingenious approach designed to help address these challenges and improve the welfare of the excluded. Inclusion is thus the development of innovative solutions made affordable to previously excluded communities at the bottom of the income pyramid.  This enables them to access quality goods and services tailored to their income levels. Such a view of inclusion through innovation leaves intact and keeps concealed the main source of exclusion from the mainstream economy: power and privilege transmitted between generations within the dominant layers of the society. Thus inheritance, rather than hard work, determines economic and social success. Protagonists of inclusive innovation stress that its main objective is not to design and produce low-performance, cheap versions of rich country technologies to be sold to poor people. Its focus, so it is argued, is rather on harnessing ingenious science and technology or putting eximious creativity to work to invent, design, produce and distribute high-performance products and services to generate high experience at ultra-low cost to the people whose needs are generally not addressed.  No matter how ingenious and cost-effective the innovation may be designed, however, if it is only targeted to meet the needs of the poorest or to substitute for their inability to afford existing products, it will only temporarily alleviate their de facto exclusion. But it will not quench their legitimate aspirations to afford the same goods and services that high-income people enjoy. Designing and developing specific products and services to fit the needs of people with the lowest incomes can be called inclusive, even oxymoronic or a contradictio in terminis. By taking exclusion as granted and seeking to develop differentiated solutions for the excluded, inclusive innovation as presently defined fails to heed the true desires of those whom it is said to help. Appropriate products and services adapted to the budget and needs of the poorest 2.6billion people sounds to me more like innovation for separate development for them. That is why many such innovations usually fail to gain widespread acceptance among the target communities. What people want most is an economy that appreciates and rewards their efforts in a fair manner.  The idea of seeking inclusive development without planning for broader access to prime quality education and knowledge is thus a self-defeating strategy.  Inclusive development is therefore in the first place a problem of access to the kind of knowledge that enables community members to tackle their local challenges and use their own specific capacity to contribute to addressing bigger challenges at national level. Investing in knowledge and capacity development that enable members of poor communities to play a significant role in the innovation process to address their particular challenges is only a first step in making them really feel included, not only in the consumption of goods and services of their choice, but also in their production. Learning from and with the target users from excluded communities to design, develop, test and deploy solutions that address their local problems, has the additional advantage of giving the involved users a sense of dignity, self-value and recognition among fellow community members. This in turn increases the potential for further participation and facilitates the wider diffusion of the innovation in the community as it becomes considered their own. Whereas I encourage innovations targeted to alleviate the specific, pressing needs of excluded communities in the short term, only a total overhaul of the production system to develop the capacity of the poor to participate in the design and implementation of solutions to their challenges and earn a decent income can produce a truly shared development, rather than a specific development for our fellow citizens with the lowest income. For the power of innovation to be truly inclusive emerges when it recognises this need for fairness and takes the co-learning approach. Thereby the developers of innovative solutions learn from the communities for which they seek to address the challenges. They also learn to share their own experience to empower the target users of the intended innovations to take ownership of the proposed solutions. This requires a process of interactive learning that brings knowledge producers and members of the user community together to share the capacity of solving the problem. Because it is only through the power of knowledge that previously excluded communities can be truly freed from poverty.  Such an approach underpins the concept of living labs, seeking to empower users as co-creators of innovative solutions. The power of knowledge not only frees communities from poverty, it also empowers them to fully participate in the political process of their nations as free citizens. As the French philosopher and mathematician Nicolas Condorcet said, even under the most liberal of constitutions, an ignorant population remains slave.   By Dr Alexis Habiyaremye is an African Research Fellow at the Human Sciences Research Council (HSRC)  Disclaimer: The views expressed here are solely those of the author and do not represent that of the Science and Technology Department nor the HSRC.