The writing is on the wall that one of them will succeed President Jacob Zuma as the party's president. I have been listening critically to Ramaphosa and Dlamini Zuma during their campaigns and, unfortunately, I do not believe they said anything ordinary citizens - rather than ANC members - would want to hear. The candidate who is voted in as the president is ultimately going to be the country’s president, should the ANC win national elections in 2019. South Africa is facing serious challenges such as poor service delivery, maladministration and performance incapacity on the part of some in the government, unemployment, corruption, crime, lack of student funding as well as drug abuse. These are some of the issues that South Africans would like to hear about from Ramaphosa and Dlamini Zuma. How will they address these issues positively? Neither has explained their plans to unite a divided ANC in order to reshape and restore it to the party of the likes of Nelson Mandela and Oliver Tambo. It is not enough to say that the ANC will be better in 2019. What is that something that will make the ANC better in 2019 that didn't make it better in 2007? As I analyse the issue of the ANC’s coming leadership elections, my mind is preoccupied by the following questions: 1. Will the new party president be able to turn the failures of the current ANC president into successes? 2. Will Zuma interfere or have some influence should his ex-wife become the ANC president? 3. What is Zuma’s future as the country’s president should Ramaphosa and his group take over the ANC leadership? 4. Is the winning candidate and his or her group going to accommodate the losing one for the sake of peace and unity in the ANC? 5. Is the party going to be more or less divided after the conference? 6. What influence is the winning candidate going to have on the charges against Zuma? 7. Will the losing candidate and his or her group accept the result of the elections and remain ANC members? Or will what happened in 2007, when some of the disgruntled members formed another political party, the Congress of the People, happen again? We will wait and see who will emerge as the ANC president after the conference. Perhaps, and, indeed, hopefully, that person will play an effective role to bring changes to the country and ensure that the ANC is united. The more divided the party, the more the country will suffer, since it is the ruling party. Reverend Maudu Morudu Temba, Hammanskraal