Festive-season shopping was delayed as people watched and were treated to educational entertainment and loads of fun right in the heart of the mall. The edutainment area saw a number of children dancing, colouring in Christmas cards and participating in a science show.  Unlike a normal shopping day where children are often seen dragging their feet, screaming and crying while shopping with their parents, they were transformed into happy people. Throughout the experience, children smiled, laughed and had the time of their lives. Children who visited the mall were seen pulling their parents in the direction of the court, wanting to be part of the fun.  Among them was Takalani and her mother Rendani Ntsieni from Centurion. But Takalani did not want to miss out on all the fun.  Being the dancer that she is, she participated in, and won, the dance competition, standing a chance to win a R2500 shopping voucher. However, in order to win the voucher, she will have to return on Christmas Eve for the final dance competition. “Often at this time of the year you find that parents don't know what to do with their children, so we have created something that both parents and children will get to enjoy,” said Megan Meas, Menlyn Park marketing manager.  “We wanted to create something special because most people have a generic Christmas and keep it traditional, but what we did here allows us to do things differently but still tie it in with the whole feel of community and sharing and the joy that comes with Christmas." She said this was a great opportunity for parents to bring their children and leave them for a while and fetch them shortly afterwards.  “We have a safety mechanism; you sign the children in and they get tags with the parents’ contact number,” Meas said. Through the Christmas out of this World activities spread across the mall, the shopping centre wanted to help children living with traumatic facial conditions. So the mall would extend the proceeds of these festive activities to the Smile Foundation charity for children in need. Meas said: “We have a lot taking place, from the science show, taking pictures with Santa and the Disney tree used to raise funds towards the Smile Foundation.” The tree is made of 300 Minnie and Mickey Mouse teddy bears allowing customers to "buy" them for R50. But they are not to be removed from the tree and both the toy and money will be donated to the Smile Foundation.   The science shows run every day and will go on until Christmas Eve, with three shows daily. Meas said they created the family activations as they realised that Pretoria was about family and community, which the mall firmly believes in.