When architect Gerard Moerdijk built the cenotaph, he did so with mathematical precision to ensure the sun shone precisely at the centre of the cenotaph only on December 16 at exactly 12pm. This year was no exception, and the crowds watched in awe as the 
ray of light hit the slab on the cenotaph. This delighted all who had travelled from all corners of the country and beyond to see it and it marked the perfect commemoration of the history of the Afrikaners. Marieta and Jacques Lombard, said: “We travelled from Middelburg to come and see this place and the cenotaph for the first time. “We will definitely bring our children next year because this day is very important in our history.” Annetjie van der Merwe, 80, climbed to the top balcony of the dome just in time to see the light hit the cenotaph for the first time in her life. She said that all her life she had always wanted to witness the moment. “I am so happy I finally saw it. The young people were so lovely and kind to allow my to see it peacefully. I woke up very early to be here and I am happy I finally saw it. I couldn’t be happier. “Now I am looking forward to a wonderful Christmas.” December 16 marks the historic day of the Battle of Blood River which took place in 1838 - the cenotaph, an empty grave that symbolises the resting place of Afrikaner leader Piet Retief and his men, reminds them of the sacrifice made by the Voortrekkers. On that day, the Voortrekkers prayed and asked God to give them protection during the Battle of Blood River against the Zulu nation. They took a vow and promised they would forever commemorate the vow with their descendants if the Lord blessed them during the battle, hence the day is celebrated by many every year. However, with the dawn of democracy, it became known as Day of Reconciliation. When the business of the day was concluded, visitors toured the facility and enjoyed what it had to offer. The Voortrekker Monument, a national heritage site, is one of the most visited heritage locations in the province, and top 10 cultural historical visitor attractions in the country.