James Selfe, chairperson of the DA’s federal executive, said the party had given De Lille reasons for her suspension, but insisted that these remain confidential until the matter was finalised.  “The mayor has been furnished with reasons for her suspension and she is expected to respond after new year. The contents of the report remains confidential between the party and the mayor,” said Selfe.  The report is believed to centre on allegations that some city councillors may have been involved in a murder of a DA councillor in Philippi East and that building work done at De Lille's home, paid for by Cape Town ratepayers, may not have been legal. Selfe said the mayor had not made any official communication to the party’s federal executive to defend herself.  Disgruntled De Lille has vowed that she would drag the party to court if she was removed from her position as City of Cape Town mayor. She said the party did not have enough reasons to remove her, but she had to ask for an extended time to advance reasons as to why she should not be suspended.  In a statement released by her office, De Lille said: “I am of the view that they (the reasons) do not warrant my suspension nor my removal. “I am of the view that the ‘process’ that has been followed has been patently unfair towards me. My legal team will convey this to (the federal executive), as they have done repeatedly during the past few months. “I have made no secret of the fact that I will consider legal action if the DA decides to remove me from my position as the mayor of Cape Town.” However, DA spokesperson Phumzile van Damme, who did not reveal the contents of the inquiry report said the party’s sub-committee had found “sufficient management and governance-
related challenges prevalent in the DA’s City of Cape Town caucus, negatively impacting the city’s mandate to govern efficiently for the people of Cape Town". However, the ANC opposition say they would fight until De Lille handed over the mayoral chain. Khaya Yozi, ANC councillor and spokesperson for the party in the Dullah Omar region, said if De Lille challenges her suspension in court, they would also approach the court to have her removed.  “If she goes to court, good for her, but we will also be going to court to petition the court to not bring her back as the mayor, including those officials implicated,” said Yozi. He added that the party would in its first meeting in 2018 call for a motion of no confidence in De Lille.