A circular released by Salga last week showed that councillors, speakers and mayors would be getting a R3400 cellphone allowance plus a further R300 data allowance per month, better housing benefits and bodyguards. The perks, which would be backdated to July 1, 2017, were gazetted by Minister of Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs Des Van Rooyen. Samwu’s general secretary, Simon Mathe, said these allowances were shocking, particularly given the fact that unlimited cellphone contracts which are inclusive of both data and unlimited calls cost considerably less than R2000. Mathe said this left them to conclude that these benefits were intended to increase councillors' salaries because they never returned calls from community members. “Municipal workers are left to subsidise the employer by using their own cellphones when performing their duties. These are people who are responsible for ensuring that South Africans receive services yet they are not provided with proper Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) so they can safely perform their duties,” Mathe said. “The most shocking revelation of this gazette is that mayors, councillors and speakers and their deputies will automatically qualify to have bodyguards without any threat assessment being done. This is a blatant abuse of resources which could have otherwise be redirected towards service delivery and the better remuneration of municipal workers. This provision will also be open to abuse by councils as it does not set the maximum number of bodyguards to be assigned, taking into consideration the experiences of Mogalakwena Local Municipality where 20 bodyguards were assigned to one individual.” The circular also showed that mayors will be enjoying free accommodation at the expense of ratepayers whereas councillors will be receiving over R6500 in a housing allowance. Councillors would be paid a further R1024 per day for every sitting of district municipal councils in addition to their monthly salaries. Mathe said this sitting allowance defied logic and would further create an impression that municipalities are like company boards where individuals get paid to attend board meetings. “We view these perks as a waste of resources and therefore urge councils which have the interest of communities at heart not to implement them. In fact, this gazette should be rescinded by the very authority which gazetted it,” Mathe said. “As we prepare for the second round of negotiations, we will remind Salga that these perks have been an indication to municipal workers that the time to plead poverty is over. Municipal workers have made the conclusion that the money is indeed there to cater for the demands which they have put forward.” Samwu and Salga are to meet in the next round of negotiations at the end of January. Samwu would demand a 15% salary increase and wants a new minimum wage from July of R10000 a month. - African News Agency/ANA