And with graduation hats thrown in the air, the youngsters who attended the National Youth Entrepreneurs Awards ceremony came out winners for taking their thinking above and beyond the norm. They had participated in the Step Up 2 a Start Up competition, which spanned across all nine provinces and reached 150000 secondary school pupils, encouraging them to come up with ideas that could propel them into the business arena. Small Business Development Minister Lindiwe Zulu told them such programmes were important as a lot of communities did not understand the possibilities that existed for them to create their own businesses. Zulu said that was particularly the case for young people in schools which only focused on them studying to get jobs upon completion of their studies. She said however, over the past three years there had been a shift in attitude. “This is an awareness among youth to not only think of going to university. “But we are not saying neglect education think bigger and take knowledge acquired further and become providers of employment.” It was also important for people to know that Small, Medium and Micro Enterprises (SMMEs) were the 
biggest creator of jobs, Zulu added. Minister in the Presidency Jeff Radebe said he was honoured to address an occasion as auspicious as one that recognised and celebrated excellence among the young people of the country. Radebe said even though, for the longest time, the dominant narrative in the public discourse regarded young people as the lost generation, the competition and fruits thereof was a clear indication of the contrary. He said: “They have taken it upon themselves to redefine the purpose and craft a different trajectory for their own generation. “They are the manifestation of Frantz Fanon’s words that each generation must come out of relative obscurity and discover its mission and fulfil it or betray it.” Radebe also took the opportunity to commend Prime Media for taking the initiative to recognise and celebrate young people. He said the commitment and ideals exposed by the competition resonated with the imperative of the Department of Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation. More so, as it presented the pupils with an opportunity to display their entrepreneurial skills in a supportive and conducive environment. “Through this competition, we will be able to nurture young people to become entrepreneurs who will contribute to our nation’s economic growth,” he said. Participants came up with vast ideas including using tyres as insulation in homes, wristbands to combat domestic abuse, and, as did the winning team, come up with an education guide app. All participants were winners as sponsors including Standard Bank, the MTN Foundation, Sasol and Tsogo Sun offered prizes such as paid internships and bursaries for the brilliant ideas that they deemed to resonate with aspects of their respective companies. Zulu added: “We need to be here as government to show the private sector the fruits of them taking part in initiatives that benefit our youth.” Overall winners, 16-year-old Wendy Nkosi and partner Fisokuhle Lushaba said they had come up with the app guide as they were going to matric and wanted to have all the information they needed at their fingertips. The pupils, from Pace Commercial Secondary School, said the app provided information of the universities available and  career choices they offered. It also gave information on any bursaries which might be offered. “It’s stressful for any learner in matric to find all the relevant information they need when taking the next step.  “So, rather than having learners going from website to website, we can centralise all they’ll ever need to know in one place,” said Lushaba. Nkosi added: “It is at no cost to the learner. “But we also help universities to find the right students and they pay for the information to be included.”