Police watchdog the Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid) and the Hawks last week raided Phahlane’s home and properties belonging to an SAPS contractor, Keith Keating. Keating was fingered in an alleged tender scandal recently and, according to reports, he also allegedly paid for vehicles for Phahlane, his wife Brigadier Ntombizodwa Phahlane and his sister, to ensure the SAPS contracts were given to him. Phahlane maintained his innocence saying that the allegations were “propaganda”.  Yesterday, he told Independent Media that he was in possession of two vehicles from car dealer Durand Snyman - whose properties were also raided by Ipid last week - but the vehicles were a sponsorship toward his family’s community outreach project for an 18-month period. Phahlane said that he and his family often distributed food hampers to the needy and Snyman sponsored a Volkswagen Polo and Toyota Hilux for the family project. “It was a sponsorship for only 18 months and the two vehicles were returned to the dealership in May and June this year. I do know Snyman but I have never purchased any vehicles from him. I only sold vehicles through his dealership,” Phahlane said. He said that his relationship with Snyman was independent from the business Keating and Snyman were involved in, adding that the sponsored vehicles “had nothing to do with the police”. “I don’t know where this comes from that I received kickbacks from Keating and Snyman.  “Snyman sponsored the vehicles for marketing purposes. He saw the good work we were doing and wanted to assist us in giving back to the community,” Phahlane said. His mother’s house, where his sister lives, was also raided and his sister’s Ford Ranger was seized by police. Phahlane said that upon seeing the condition of vehicles sponsored by Snyman, his sister chose to purchase her Ford Ranger through his dealership because she was happy with the quality of the vehicles. He labelled the allegations, that he was fabricating a case against Ipid head Robert McBride, that his (Phahlane’s) wife was the head of Technology Services in the SAPS and that he had a fleet of vehicles as “propaganda”. He said his family owned three vehicles - an Amarok, a Mercedes-Benz and a Range Rover - financed through Standard Bank and Nedbank and which he is still making payments towards. When questioned on SAfm on whether it was common practice for police officers to receive sponsorships of this nature, Phahlane minced his words but eventually said that he did not know. Crime expert from the Institute for Security Services, Johan Burger said that he did not know of any provisions made in the Police Service Act or Regulations that sponsorships could be given to individual officers. “If Snyman or his company can show proof that this was indeed the purpose the vehicles were intended for then it is probably acceptable but because of Phahlane’s senior position, one would think he would have declared this to his employer so that there is no suspicion at all.” 