JAMES MAHLOKWANE Hundreds of people mobilised from across numerous suburbs and townships travelled to Freedom Park to form a human peace chain today. The park said it was proud to host the event on December 5 because the day marked the fourth anniversary of the death of Nelson Mandela. Freedom Park Chief Executive Jane Mufamadi said: "On this day in 2013, we lost Nelson Mandela. Mandela stayed in prison for 27 years but when he came out he said, "I forgive". Let's learn from him. When asked why should he forgive, after hearing that he would be released, he said if he did not leave all the anger and bitterness behind him in the cell, he would remain chained and he would be a prisoner for life," The human peace chain was formed by people of all ages, from children to the elderly, who included members of numerous religious groups. Mufamadi said she was proud the event mobilised different communities to come together to promote peace and unity ahead of the Day of Reconciliation on December 16. "December is reconciliation month. The 16th then becomes a day for South Africans to remember where we come from, where we are now and how we are going to move forward in united communities," Because of the rain, the chain was formed inside the park's dome shaped Gallery of Leaders under the theme, Count on me Campaign: Together moving a non-violent South Africa forward. 
    To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video
   This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  Soltan Yasin Muhammad of the Muslim Faith said: "Peacekeeping was very valuable is any society and anyone who took away peace knew they did something wrong to nature," Reverent Sipho Mthethwa of the the Christian faith said he hoped that all the people who formed the chain learned and took home with them ideas of peacekeeping in the spirit of Mandela. He said the world needed peace because there were constant political uncertainties and women and children abuse. The park said by joining hands hands, the people symbolised a commitment that forged new links across the old devides, linking historically separated white, coloured, indian and black communities. The park hoped all South Africans were inspired by the human peace chain to pledge to double their efforts to reach out towards one another in peace and tolerance.