In that regard, the RTMC also urged motorist and pedestrians to remain vigilant, spokesperson Simon Zwane said.  More than 3 000 people had already been arrested for violating traffic and road laws since the beginning of December, Zwane said.  Of these, 1 300 were for driving under the influence, he said. Other transgressions included driving unroadworthy vehicles, speeding, and driving without a licence.  Zwane said more than 1 100 cars had been impounded thus far, and another 1 600  discontinued as they were not roadworthy. He warned motorists to be careful on all major South African routes, urging road users to exercise extra caution on the N3 towards Durban, the N2 in KwaZulu-Natal, and in the Eastern Cape.  The N1 between Limpopo and Gauteng and the N1 and N2 in the Western Cape are also routes which usually have a high accident rate. “Please do your part, plan your trips properly. "Also, be patient with other road users, conduct yourself properly." An estimated 2 000 cars an hour were expected to pass through the Pumulani and Carousel plazas on the N1 north.  Traffic authorities have warned travellers, especially on the busy N1, N4 and N3 routes, to prepare for congestion as people make their way to popular resorts or home for the Christmas season.  Bakwena Bakwena Platinum Corridor Concessionaire spokesperson Charmaine van Wyk urged motorists to take extra precautions on the road, especially at designated traffic hotspots. “Whether driving to the coast, mountains or bush, motorists must plan their travel routes before their departure, allowing sufficient time to reach their destinations and bearing their safety and that of other road users in mind at all times,” she said. In Pretoria, beds, electronics, window frames and groceries were just some of the items being loaded on to buses at Bosman Station ahead of the Christmas exodus from the city. There was a general mood of excitement as thousands of people descended on the area from the early hours of the morning. Loads of baggage were carried back and forth as the travellers struggled to get belongings to fit on to the buses. Most of the travellers were headed to Zimbabwe.  Many complained about the high fares. Oscar Mdluli said he usually paid R400 from Pretoria  to Harare. This time he had to fork out R800.