The tame male ostrich was, at the time, minding its own business, pecking away at food in a trough. The ostrich, owned by farmer Gerhard van der Westhuizen, had become the subject of much legal debate, stretching from the Gauteng High Court in  Pretoria, through to the Supreme Court of Appeal (SCA). Willem Burger, who had visited Van der Westhuizen’s farm as a guest, instituted a R6.7 million in damages claim against his now former friend. He claimed that in an attempt to escape the wrath of the ostrich that was chasing him, he ran away from it and tripped over a piece of wood. As a result, he tore his Achilles tendon. The ostrich, however, didn't attack Burger while he lay helplessly on the ground, but merely looked at him before it turned around and walked away. A Pretoria judge, though, blamed Van der Westhuizen for the fact that the ostrich had, in the first place, chased Burger. The judge said Burger would not have been injured if he had not had to escape the irate ostrich’s attack. However, five justices of the SCA held an entirely different view on appeal and found Burger was the author of his own misfortune. Two witnesses described how Burger had teased a male ostrich at the farm on several occasions. They said he would entice the ostrich to approach him with mielie pips in his hand. While the ostrich was eating out of his hand, he would grab it by the neck and push its head down. The ostrich would then flap its wings and perform a comical dance. When his neck was released, he would stagger backwards, much to the amusement of those watching him. On another occasion, Burger had taken a hat and placed it over the ostrich's head, they said. Van der Westhuizen said that he had repeatedly told Burger to leave the animal alone, because Burger made it angry. Burger, on the other hand, denied teasing the ostrich. He, in fact, told the court he was afraid of ostriches - and explained how, on his first night at the farm, he saw a male ostrich near the house, flapping its wings and snapping its beak. Its knees were red and he realised from experience that it was angry and dangerous. He said the ostrich walked towards them and he grabbed it by its neck and forced its head down. The justices questioned whether this was the conduct of a person who was afraid of these animals. Burger said that on the day of the incident, he was assisting Van der Westhuizen in loading blue wildebeest into a trailer, when he suddenly noticed the ostrich standing on the other side of the bakkie. He said it was watching him as it walked towards him. It was flapping its beak and wings, and Burger said he suspected that trouble was brewing. He tried to chase it away, but the ostrich continued to approach him. Burger said he then decided to make a run for it to the farmhouse, when he tripped and injured his leg. However, witnesses said the ostrich was pecking at some food, minding its own business, when Burger threw a stone at it. It was then  when the ostrich chased him. Burger later conceded that he threw a small stone at it to chase it away. The SCA found that this was provocation and Van der Westhuizen could not be held responsible for the injuries suffered by Burger’s quest to escape the ostrich’s wrath. They said the ostrich did not display any aggression towards Burger after he had fallen. “He has himself to thank for his injury,”  the justices said.