The League Cup represents the first trophy available in top-flight English football and though Manchester United, Chelsea and Arsenal all remain in the competition, City are the overwhelming favourites. Having dropped just two points in 18 league games this season, City sit 11 points clear at the top of the table. But even with a packed schedule, the lure of the first trophy of the season means Guardiola is likely to field a strong side tonight against a Leicester team smarting from a home defeat by Crystal Palace last weekend. Mid-fielder Kevin de Bruyne, who has been one of the stand-out players so far this season, said the strength of City’s squad was clear for everyone to see. “Every-body who comes in, like Ilkay (Guen-dogan, who scored in the weekend win over Tottenham), who doesn’t play a lot, is doing an incredible job,” he told BT Sport. “We know the quality of the team  (but) every game is a new game, we want to win every game.” Leicester captain Wes Morgan said Leicester were desperate to bounce back from a bad loss at home to Palace last time out. “The only way to respond is to win our next game,” he said. “We want to do a lot better than we did (against Palace) and hopefully we can. “We’ve played well (recently) and we can’t let this result get us down. We need to look at all the positive things we’ve done in recent weeks and get back to how good we can be.” Arsenal and West Ham meet for the second time in a week tonight, with Arsenal looking for a better result than their 0-0 draw at the Hammers in the league. Manager Arsene Wenger could have Shkodran Mustafi and Theo Walcott fit again, while West Ham manager David Moyes is hopeful that Cheikhou Kouyate will play after recent hamstring trouble. Wenger is likely to stick to his word and give teenager Eddie Nketiah more playing time after his two goals in the victory over Norwich in round four. Chelsea and Manchester United are both in action tomorrow in the remaining two quarter-finals. Chelsea have the advantage of playing at home against a Bournemouth side hammered at home by Liverpool on Sunday. And holders United travel to the one remaining non-Premier League side, Bristol City. United will be without Antonio Valencia, the full-back having suffered a hamstring strain during the weekend win over West Brom. “This is what I call a December injury,” United manager Jose Mourinho said after the match. “It is an injury of accumulation of fatigue. "It is a muscular one. Hamstring. Big, small, medium, I don’t know.” Paul Pogba is available again after serving a three-match suspension. City are third in the Championship and defender Joe Bryan said the side is confident they can give United a contest. “It’s exciting to test ourselves against some of the best players in the country, if not the world, so it’s one we are looking forward to,” Bryan told City’s website. All games at 9.45pm, except Bristol v Manchester United which kicks off at 10pm. - dpa