Written and directed by the Naledi theatre award-winning musical producer, Zakhele Mabena, Isambulo musical features some of South Africa’s well known professional musicians and actors such as ‘SABC 2 I want to sing Gospel’ winner Nhlakanipho Cele, Simphiwe Mini, Busisiwe Sibiya, Mathapelo Masilela, Maira Skosana, Pascaline Modiba with many more to sum a 24 man cast accompanied by a 5 piece band. Isambulo displays the African culture of worship within a typical Sunday church service. This theatre musical is a clear dramatisation of what you would find in different South African churches. It embraces diverse ways in which different churches worship God. A fusion of the old traditional hymns with new compositions illuminate to create a new song that all can worship in. “This is the kind of show that reaches out to any person of any age beyond race or denomination. The show is full of spiritual life and charisma, and speaks to every soul and I'm glad to have partnered with Radio Pulpit in this season,” says Mabena. Mabena is an award winning producer, songwriter, sound engineer and a music teacher with an ear for good sounds. Zakhele has scored music for popular television programmes such as Tshisa, Moferefere Lenyalong, ‘Its Gospel Time’ and many more. He has also produced and worked with artist such as Zubz, Pebbles, McKenzie, Ringo Madlingonzi, Unathi, Dr Sello Galane and many more. His productions have been nominated and won awards such as South African Music Awards, Metro-FM Awards and Crown Gospel Music awards. He is currently a Naledi Theatre award winner for best scoring, arrangement and adaptation for Marikana the musical. In 2016 audiences were awed when Isambulo only afforded them two-night-teaser performances which left many with an urgency to relive the musical. This year we will see a full season assuring a run throughout the Mzansi Fela Festival ending on December 23. 
	The festival’s line up also features the multi-platinum selling ​​Thandiswa Mazwai live in concert on the 8th, with legendary jazz duo Caiphus Semenya and Letta Mbulu on December 17. Mzansi Fela Festival has become one of the premier arts festival in the calendar of South African Arts. For the past 10 years, this festival has provided a platform for local and national artists. The artistic offering of this festive event has seen many distinguished artists grace our stages and many young talents being discovered. It presents the most exciting music, theatre, dance, comedy and poetry in South Africa. An occasion that started as a five-day event, which now developed into a 20-day festival and attracts more than 10 000 people annually. Pretoria News is giving away double tickets to the ​​​Thandiswa Mazwai​ ​concert. To enter SMS PTA​ ​News (SPACE) #ThandiswaMazwai followed by your name, surname and email address to 43637. Terms & conditions apply. SMS costs R1.50. Competition closes Wednesday December 6 201​7.