Many of the cases are still ongoing, as Zuma and others have filed their notices to appeal against some of the major rulings. These include the recent judgment in which Zuma was first ordered to personally pay the legal costs incurred in his futile application at the end of last year to interdict  former public protector Thuli Madonsela from releasing her controversial State of Capture report. Judge President Dunstan Mlambo, in a move that was applauded by many, said the president persisted with litigation and fought the case while he knew that could have been avoided.  He said the president should foot the legal bill from his own pocket and (not) burden the taxpayer.  The order came after the president, at a late stage and nearly towards the end of legal arguments, abandoned his application for an interdict.  Several NGOs and political parties applied to the court to have him foot the legal bill, as the findings he wanted to gag, were against himself and not his office. Minutes after this blow, Zuma received a second, when Judge Mlambo dismissed his application to review and set aside the damning report. Zuma challenged Madonsela’s call for a judicial inquiry and the appointment of a judge to head it chosen by the chief justice. But the court’s unanimous findingwas that Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng had to within 30 days appoint the commission, headed by a judge of his choice. Zuma on Friday filed papers seeking leave to appeal against the judgment. He said the court had erred in slapping him with the costs order, as he was not cited in the matter in his own capacity, but as president of the country. He is also challenging the ruling that the chief justice had to appoint the head of the  commission of inquiry into state capture. According to him this took away his powers to make the appointment. Another case which is due to drag on next year on appeal, is the axing of National Prosecuting Authority head Shaun Abrahams.  Judge Mlambo, once again heading a full Bench, set aside the termination of the contract of former NPA boss Mxolisi Nxasana and ordered he return the R17.3million golden handshake he had received. This in effect meant that Abrahams’s appointment as NPA head was unlawful. The court, however, said it was not in the best interests for Nxasana to return to office and declared the position vacant. In a significant blow to Zuma, the court ruled that Zuma may not appoint, suspend or remove the NPA head, because of the numerous criminal charges he faced. Both Zuma and Abrahams are set on appealing against this judgment. The last legal blow to both Zuma and Abrahams this year, shortly before Christmas, came when the court set aside Zuma and Abrahams’s failure to act against deputy national director of public prosecutions, Nomgcobo Jiba and special director of public prosecutions, Lawrence Mrwebi.  Zuma was directed to institute disciplinary inquiries into Jiba and Mrwebi’s fitness to hold office in the NPA  and to suspend them pending the outcome of those inquiries.   But this will be put on hold for now, pending appeal proceedings in the Supreme Court of Appeal in Bloemfontein next year, where the pair will fight the order in which their names were struck from the roll as advocates.  Both Jiba and Mrwebi were earlier struck from the roll of advocates, after the court, in a scathing judgment, found they lacked the integrity required of them as advocates.  The striking-off application was brought by the General Council of the Bar.  The pair, however, obtained leave to appeal against that order. But in more bad news for Jiba and Mrwebi, Judge Billy Mothle did order that pending the finalisation of their appeals before the SCA, both be prohibited from performing any functions relating to their offices in the NPA.  They may not enter the NPA’s offices nor engage in any discussion concerning any pending cases under consideration by the NPA.  The court frowned upon Abrahams’s allowing the pair to take their work laptops home and still engage in official work, despite them being on special leave.   It was said Jiba was still often seen at the office,  “We are of the view that this arrangement is unsatisfactory. In effect, Jiba and Mrwebi are having access to computers and documents in the NPA as well as visiting the offices of the NPA. This was as good as them continuing with their functions in the normal way,” Judge Mothle said.  The controversial Gupta family received bad and then slightly better news in the past months regarding their banking struggles. At first they lost their urgent application for the Bank of Baroda to keep the bank accounts of 15 of their companies open.  The bank wanted to close their accounts earlier this year due to the negative publicity associated with the family and the risks it posed for the bank.  But a few days later, another judge, on a slightly different argument, gave them a lifeline. The accounts of the companies, which include the embattled Oakbay and its group of companies, will remain open pending review proceedings by the family against the bank, which is due to be heard early next year. Another person who was dealt a severe blow by the court this year was former Hawks head, Lieutenant-General Berning Ntlemeza. NGOs the Helen Suzman Foundation and Freedom Under Law asked the court to review and set aside his appointment by former police minister Nathi Nhleko. Ntlemeza was appointed as head of the Hawks months after three judges made some damning remarks about his character. He was, among others, labelled as “biased, dishonest and lacking integrity and honour”. The court found that Ntlemeza should never have been appointed as head of the elite unit.  Ntlemeza tried to fight his axing but lost his legal battle in the end. Home Affairs director-general Mkuseli Apleni received better news when the court set aside his suspension.  Judge Hans Fabricius ruled that former Home Affairs Minister Hlengiwe Mkhize lacked the authority to suspend Apleni and declared his suspension unconstitutional and of no force and effect. Apleni had accused Mkhize of acting irrationally by suspending him on trumped-up charges so that she could use his absence to settle litigation against the department involving millions of rand.  The court ordered that Apleni immediately had to return to office.  Litigation between Fireblade, a company owned by the Oppenheimers and Home Affairs is also expected to drag on. It relates to Fireblade’s application to be allowed to operate a customs and immigration service at OR Tambo International Airport. Judge Sulete Potterill earlier found that the former minister of home Affairs and now Minister of Finance, Malusi Gigaba,  did give the Oppenheimers, through their company, permission to run the service at the airport.  The minister persisted that he never gave permission and appealed against the ruling, which was turned down by the court. This meant that Judge Potterill’s order remained in place. Fireblade will now turn to the court to obtain an urgent order to hold the minister in contempt of court for not adhering to the judgment.  The controversial Prasa board also turned to court this year and scored a victory. It ruled in favour of Popo Molefe and five others to be reinstated as board members. This followed a letter sent to them in March by former transport minister Dipuo Peters, informing them of their removal as directors of the board.  The appointment of an interim board by the former minister was also declared invalid.  Ousted Eskom chief executive Brian Molefe will meanwhile have to wait a while longer to hear his fate after the court reserved judgment in the application brought by  the DA and trade union Solidarity, seeking an order declaring his R30m pension payout unlawful and for it to be set aside. They said since Molefe had a fixed term five-year contract with Eskom, there was no way he could be eligible for the power utility’s Eskom Pension Fund.  The DA and Solidarity argued that  Molefe must be ordered to pay back the R11m he had reportedly received as part of that R30.1m payout. Former Zimbabwe first lady Grace Mugabe’s legal woes are meanwhile also far from over. Three NGOs have joined the legal battle by model Gabrielle Engels, assisted by AfriForum and the DA for the court to review and set aside the diplomatic immunity afforded to Mugabe following assault charges brought against her by Engels. Freedom Under Law, the Women’s Legal Centre Trust and the Commission for Gender Equality were admitted as friends of the court to intervene in the application. They have until February 21 to file their heads of argument. The application followed an incident on August 13, when Engels was allegedly assaulted by Mugabe at a hotel in Sandton.  The 20-year-old model claimed Mugabe burst into the Sandton hotel room where she was at the time and hit her on the forehead with an electric cord with a plug at the end.  Engels suffered gashes to her forehead and the back of her head.  She laid criminal charges against Mugabe, but the former first lady never appeared in court as she had been granted diplomatic immunity by Minister of International Relations and Co-operation, Maite Nkoana-Mashabane. It has become the norm over the past two years to drag political disagreements to court, and 2018 is expected to be no different.