Former Kaizer Chiefs midfielder Abel Shongwe who is now an agent told Independent Media that Anas has attracted three top clubs. Anas, who previously played for Maritzburg United, has scored three goals this season “Teams are phoning me for the services of Anas," Shongwe revealed. "Wits have phoned me, Cape Town City have also been in contact  and  (Mamelodi) Sundowns have also shown interest,” . Anas's current contract expires in June. He will be in a position to sign the pre-contract with the team of his choice next month. “So it is all up to their discussion with Free State Stars and I will only come in when they are done with his club. They have to speak to Rantsi (Mokoena, the club General Manager) and I will only start engaging with the team that is serious about his services once they are done with Stars." Wits have struggled for goals this season. The Absa Premiership champions are at the bottom of the table with 11 points after 14 matches. They have scored seven goals, the lowest scoring team so far this season. Amr Gamal has been good but hasn’t been clinical enough. Hellings Mhango has missed a lot of action having been suspended for six matches for spitting at AmaZulu's Michael Morton. Signing Anas could help solve their problems. Meanwhile AmaZulu have axed four players as they aim to trim down their squad for the second half of the season. Usuthu team manager Qedi Dlamini confirmed they have decided to part ways with four players who were not in coach Cavin Johnson’s plans. “We have a squad of 36 players and we want to cut it down. The number is huge and the coach want to work with the manageable squad. So we have released Vukile Mngqibisa, Phillip Ndlondlo, Tebogo Moerane and Nkanyiso Zungu. Zungu is going on loan to Jomo Cosmos. Mngqibisa’s current contract was due to end in June but we decided to part ways now because he is not in the coach's plans,” Dlamini explained. Usuthu signed Michael Morton, Jabulani Ncobeni, Siyethemba Mnguni, Simphiwe Ntsweni, Thembela Sikhakhane, Boalefa Pule, Sduduzo Dlamini, Sadat Okoriko, Siyabonga Mbatha and Mhlengi Cele. “We are now searching for a striker. If we can get someone who can give us more goals then we will be more than happy as the team. At  the moment we are still looking at what is available in the market,” Dlamini elaborated. Usuthu have been impressive against big opposition this season in the league. They have beaten Bidvest Wits, Mamelodi Sundowns and drawn against Kaizer Chiefs and Orlando Pirates. “The coach didn’t have much time before the start of the season. He arrived one week before the start of the season. He has done well since coming in. We were aiming for 20 points after 15 matches and we have so far collected 15 points and we still have two matches  in hand. Our target is still possible. We have to keep going,” Dlamini stated.