The much-anticipated conference will see seven candidates in line for the ANC’s top job as President Jacob Zuma’s second term comes to an end. Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa and veteran NEC member and former African Union Commission chairperson Dr Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma have been tipped as the frontrunners. The five-day conference will start on Saturday. At the venue, workers have begun erecting signboards, marquees, cutting the grass, bringing in chairs and installing electrical systems. Only construction and maintenance workers and police officers were allowed inside the conference venue at this point, with a maintenance manager sayingno one will be allowed near the venue without proper accreditation and security will be very tight. ANC provincial general councils to elect preferred candidates were marred by chaos and violence as members disrupted proceedings in some provinces, including the Northern Cape, Free State and the Eastern Cape. The Joburg Metro Police Department indicated there would be road closures around the Nasrec vicinity, with spokesperson Wayne Minnaar saying officers from all law enforcement agencies in Gauteng would be on duty at the conference until Thursday next week. “The officers will manage traffic on Nasrec Road, Aerodrome Road, and Randburg Road, and will be on duty at the on- and off-ramps from the N1, N12, M1 and M2 highways,” Minnaar said. Joburg Emergency Management Services could not disclose which of their operations would be beefed up for the conference, with spokesman Robert Mulaudzi saying they would follow the lead of the police. The SAPS could also not immediately officially comment on their planned operations around the conference. Brigadier Vishnu Naidoo said they “will be issuing a statement” later. Hotels and lodges in and around Joburg are bound to be fully booked as the ANC expects at least 4000 delegates and more than 1000 journalists from all over the country as well as abroad to attend the conference. - African News Agency/ANA See Page 4