Four days of protests in the Palestinian territories over Trump’s announcement on Wednesday had largely died down, but his overturning of long-standing US policy on Jerusalem - a city holy to Jews, Muslims and Christians - drew more Arab warnings of potential damage to prospects for Middle East peace. “Our hope is that everything is calming down and that we are returning to a path of normal life without riots and without violence,” Israeli Defence Minister Avigdor Lieberman said on Army Radio. But Abu Dhabi Crown Prince Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed al-Nahayan, the de facto leader of the United Arab Emirates, said the situation threatens to stoke violence. “The US move could throw a lifebuoy to terrorist and armed groups, which have begun to lose ground in the region,” he said. In Beirut, meanwhile, Lebanese security forces fired teargas and water canons at protesters, some of them waving Palestinian flags, near the US embassy. Demonstrators set fires in the street, torched US and Israeli flags and threw projectiles toward security forces that had barricaded the main road to the complex. Along Israel’s tense frontier with the Gaza Strip, the Israeli military yesterday destroyed what it described as a “significant” cross-border attack tunnel dug by the enclave’s dominant Islamist group, Hamas. There was no immediate comment on the demolition, which came as Palestinian factions tried to meet yesterday's deadline for an Egyptian-mediated handover of the Gaza Strip by Hamas to Western-backed President Mahmoud Abbas after a decade’s schism. Pre-dawn Israeli air strikes in the Gaza Strip on Saturday killed two Palestinian gunmen after militants fired rockets from the area into Israel on Friday. In the Indonesian capital Jakarta yesterday, thousands protested outside the US embassy, many waving banners saying “Palestine is in our hearts”. Leaders in Indonesia, home to the world’s largest Muslim population, have joined a global chorus of condemnation of Trump’s announcement, including from Western allies. Arab foreign ministers, who met in Cairo on Saturday, urged the US to abandon its decision and said the move would spur violence throughout the region. Israel says that all of Jerusalem is its capital, while Palestinians want East Jerusalem as the capital of a future independent state. Most countries consider East Jerusalem, which Israel annexed after capturing it in a 1967 war, to be occupied territory and say the status of the city should be decided at future Israeli-Palestinian talks. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu reacted to critics in a statement before talks in Paris yesterday with French President Emmanuel Macron, to be followed by a meeting with European foreign ministers in Brussels. “I hear (from Europe) voices of condemnation over President Trump’s historic announcement, but I have not heard any condemnation for the rocket firing against Israel that has come (after the announcement) and the awful incitement against us,” Netanyahu said. The Trump administration has said it is still committed to reviving Palestinian-Israeli talks that collapsed in 2014. It said Israel’s capital would be in Jerusalem under any serious peace plan, adding that it has not taken a position with regard to the city’s borders. Palestinian Foreign Minister Riyad al-Maliki has said the Palestinians will be looking for a new peace talks broker instead of the US and would seek a UN Security Council resolution over Trump’s decision. Meanwhile, the Associated Press reported that the Israeli military said yesterday it has destroyed a tunnel built by the Hamas militant group that stretched from the Gaza Strip several hundred metres into Israeli territory, declaring a breakthrough in its war against underground threats from the Palestinian enclave. Hamas, the armed group that controls Gaza, declined to comment. A spokesman said the tunnel began in the central Gazan town of Khan Younis and stretched for over a kilometre across the border and into Israel. The army said the timing of the weekend operation was not connected to a flare-up of deadly violence that followed Trump’s recognition of Jerusalem as Israel’s capital. - Reuters and AP