Sithole was looking particularly dapper. He was rocking a neat suit topped by an umqhele, the traditional Springbok fur head-ring. He’s worn one every day since the conference began - on and off TV. It’s a brilliant move, he became the most recognisable of the pundits who have been pressed into service to discuss and analyse everything as the networks try to fill the dead space caused by the rolling delays of the 54th ANC national conference. The fake news has been intense. Gwede Mantashe is a breath of fresh air as we wait for the voting to finish. He’s avuncular, chatty. He’s saying goodbye as secretary-general. Because we’re over-reading everything in the doldrums between real news, his farewell seems ominous - even though comedian/ventriloquist Conrad Koch seems to be Uncle Gwede’s foil He’s telling us about how life doesn’t work out the way it ought to, how Ben Schoeman (which I’d always thought was a highway between Joburg and Pretoria), had been tipped to become prime minister, as it was in those days, after HF Verwoerd was assassinated, only for BJ Vorster to win. The securocrats had wangled it, he muttered darkly. Was this a hidden code as to how the voting was going? We wondered. Eventually, we hear voting has been concluded. Within hours, WhatsApp groups are ablaze with wholly contradictory claims that the Gauteng ANC was mobilising to march on Nasrec to protest the theft of the election; that Ramaphosa had run away with the poll but dark moves were afoot to steal it. Nkosazana Dlamani Zuma’s camp exuding confidence, her court jester (and sometime minister of police) Fikile Mbalula, is machine-gunning tweets in her support, getting everyone to prepare for history being made. Eventually, plenary is opened for the media to watch the announcement Except it takes another two hours for the results to be announced. It starts with one of the other mini battles; messages of fraternal good wishes - delayed by two days, out of fear, say the conspiracy theorists, that the alliance partners could have used the opportunity to campaign for Ramaphosa against Dlamini Zuma. Blade Mzimande, once the closest of comrades, steals the show. He issues his customary injunction, managing to cover all the food groups, keep to his script and then break in to song. He’s in good voice, jovial, arms swinging. We huddle around the TV. His body language is good, is the consensus: He’s happy. He knows. Ramaphosa must have won. Except he hasn’t yet. Not to be outdone, Baleka Mbete takes the mic and starts singing. “The Speaker shouldn’t sing,” quips one of us, cruelly, but it’s true, in the battle of Struggle Idols, she’s lost hands down. She shouldn’t, as the saying goes, give up her day job - except she just has; this is her last gig as the national chair. We scrutinise the body language of the outgoing national executive committee. Every grimace, every smile, the false 
back slapping, the genuine hugs. The waiting drags on. Obviously there’s an issue with the count. You don’t have to be a rocket, or a political scientist, to work that one out. The TV announcers are getting a little desperate; there are only so many adjectives that can describe delegates toyi-toying around the hall, only a finite amount of empty phrases about the importance of the political race. They cut away to arbitrary interviews in different parts of the country, while we fret, as the clock ticks down towards the first edition deadline. We cut back to the hall, now Jacob Zuma has taken the mic. In the battle of Struggle Idols, no one holds a candle to the Nkandla Crooner. He works his way through his set, ending up with Awulet’mshini wami, the iconic Umkhonto we Sizwe song. I’m getting flashbacks to 2007 and the Khwezi rape trial outside the high court in Joburg. Zuma’s getting into the swing of things, literally, shoulders heaving. Then the cameras pan around as the election officials walk through the hall and on to the stage. Zuma’s still singing, but he’s looking at them. Maybe it’s the exertion of singing so lustily but the expression on his face suggests maybe he wishes he had a real machine gun to do an Al Capone on on them. Within minutes the drama’s all over, except it’s actually only just beginning. Ramaphosa is the new president. He’s struggling to contain his emotions, wiping away his tears as the rest of the Top 6 are announced. It might be a hollow victory because he’s only got two official allies - Mantashe and Gauteng’s Paul Mashatile, but the all important secretariat; the secretary-general and deputy secretary-general are held by Ace Magashule and Jessie Duarte (again), with David DD Mabuza, the Mpumalanga kingmaker. It’s all going to go down to who holds the balance of power in the other 80 seats on the NEC. Maybe Ramaphosa could be doomed before he even begins. One thing’s for sure, the results aren’t to everyone’s delight; Bathabile Dlamini for one. She storms in to the media lounge, obviously enraged, in tears and at full steam. No one wants to get in her way, instead there’s a trail of hacks behind her. She feels sold out, that’s for sure. She disappears into the little ANC lounge-let and closes the door behind her. It’s a small room and a large entourage. She comes out a while later, looking far more composed, her friend Lindiwe Zulu pleads with us to give her space to gather her thoughts. There’ll be a presser tomorrow, she says. Except when tomorrow dawns; that presser’s cancelled, there’s a new crisis brewing; the vote count between Senzo Mchunu and Magashule. Supra Mahumapelo is holding court - and playing hard ball. If the Ramaphosa bunch keep pushing for a recount, the Dlamini Zuma camp will call for the entire vote to be redone. Then he let’s himself be interviewed by Conrad Koch’s puppet. This evening, as the journalists pack up at the end of the conference and head out of Nasrec, they’ll pass a fun fair. It’s not in use at the moment. The sign on the gate says: “Please note, this will close at 19h00.” For the rest of the country though, our fun fair might only just be about to open. Kevin Ritchie is Independent Media’s regional executive editor - Gauteng