The world has woken up to the reality of slavery in Libya over the past month thanks to CNN’s exposé, but the reports of slavery emanating out of Libya from rights groups and NGOs have for years been falling on deaf ears. Perhaps the images of our African brothers and sisters being sold for $400 (about R5500)  at market auctions have been enough to prick consciences worldwide. Following the CNN report, the chairperson of the AU Alpha Conde said he was “outraged”; the UN secretary-general Antonio Guterres was “horrified” and French President Emmanuel Macron called the slave auctions “a crime against humanity”. The South African government has “condemned the auctioning of African migrants in Libya as slaves,” and “called for an immediate end to these atrocities.” But in April, the International Organisation for Migration produced evidence of slavery in Libya and the existence of markets where migrants were commodities to be bought. A few months later president of MSF Joanne Liu wrote an open letter to European governments about the thriving kidnapping, torture and extortion business in Libya. “In their efforts to stem the influx, are European governments ready to pay the price for rape, torture and slavery? We can’t say we didn’t know about this,” she wrote. Amnesty International’s West Africa director Alioune Tine said: “We’ve been talking about slavery for a long time.” The chorus of condemnation will only continue to get louder. But perhaps Martin Luther King jr should have added to his famous saying the caveat: “In the end we will remember not the words of our friends when they finally chose to speak up, but their inaction in the face of human tragedy.” This is the great concern. The world condemned the genocide in Rwanda over and over again even as it was being carried out, but what did the UN or Africa really do to save the lives of hundreds of thousands of people? Absolutely nothing. What plan is on the table to immediately end the crime of slavery in Libya? So far absolutely nothing. The sum of our collective efforts are declarations and condemnations, but we are never prepared to take the difficult road of putting boots on the ground to end these gross violations of human rights. Wasn’t that the role of the AU which would differentiate it from the OAU? The AU was to be committed and empowered to act swiftly to prevent gross violations of human rights on the continent. But almost two decades after we planned the formation of an AU standby force, nothing has materialised. The government based in Tripoli is virtually helpless to take action against the slave traders, and it controls even less territory than the Benghazi-based Libyan National Army under Khalifa Haftar. Then there are vast swathes of the country under control of the Islamic State and al-Qaeda. This is precisely the type of situation in a collapsed state where the AU needs to mobilise rapid reaction forces to move in and do the job. Surely we are not waiting for French elite troops to parachute into Libya and neutralise the slave masters? The slavery issue was high on the agenda of this week’s AU-EU meeting in Abidjan, and it has been decided that the UN-AU-EU will form a task force to fight against slavery in Libya. If that initiative fails, we need to create an African solution to this problem, otherwise the statement by President Nana Akufo-Addo of Ghana this week will ring true. He said reports of slavery in Libya have “made mockeries of the alleged solidarity of African nations in the AU of which Libya is a member.” If we are waiting for the UN to do anything more than threaten further sanctions against the perpetrators then we are deluding ourselves. Even that is a non-starter considering that there has been a sanctions programme in place in Libya since 2011 which is targeted at those committing serious human rights abuses. But despite the sanctions programme slavery has thrived. The Government of National Accord based in Tripoli is being praised for launching an investigation into the reports of slavery. A thorough investigation is of course important, but what is needed now is action - and that is where Africa and the international community always fall short.