Ramaphosa said yesterday despite divisions, the ANC will close ranks and rally behind the newly elected leader. He said that at the supper with President Jacob Zuma in Pretoria this week the president urged all seven presidential candidates to ensure the conference was smooth. Zuma asked them to also rein in their supporters to ensure the conference was orderly, he said. “I believe members of the ANC will in a disciplined way accept the outcome. You may think this is a conference the ANC is going into in a divided way, but we have shock absorbers. “The ANC constitution has shock absorbers which enable us to accept democratic centralism. If you fight another round you must wait another five years." The conference would strengthen the ANC and it will emerge in a better shape. He did not expect disputes to come out of the conference, he said. This followed concerns that the party could be taken to court by losing factions in December after some provinces were taken to court to dispute the election outcomes. The Eastern Cape, Northern Cape, Free State and KwaZulu-Natal are some of the provinces that faced legal challenges after the election of the new leaders. Ramaphosa said one of the best things Zuma has done was to invite all the seven presidential candidates to his presidential house to urge them to have an orderly conference. Ramaphosa noted that some people have described the dinner with Zuma as the "Last Supper" similar to the Biblical supper with Jesus Christ. “With Jesus Christ there was Judas Iscariot. This time I don’t know who Judas Iscariot is. At the last supper (with Zuma) it was warm, people hugged each other. No one had a dagger. The president said 'I appeal to you to appeal to your supporters to be orderly',” he said. They all committed to accept the outcome of the conference irrespective of the winner. “If I am not successful I will gladly accept the outcome of the delegates. I will pledge my support and loyalty and continue to serve the ANC in whatever form. I will certainly not dispute any outcome." Ramaphosa is contesting for the position with former AU Commission chairperson Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma, Minister in the Presidency Jeff Radebe, ANC Treasurer Zweli Mkhize, Speaker Baleka Mbete and Human Settlements Minister Lindiwe Sisulu.