1. Nothing makes me happier than when a footballer is rewarded for hard work and commitment. And that is why I was so chuffed when Lebogang Manyama swept the boards at the PSL awards ceremony this year - and I was even more thrilled when he landed an overseas move to Turkish club Konyaspor. 2. Gavin Hunt and I were fierce opponents during our playing days, which is why I am always delighted that he has gone on to become one of the most respected and successful coaches in the PSL. This year’s league title triumph with Wits was the fourth of his coaching career - and that, for me, vicariously, is most certainly a highlight. 3. Benni McCarthy is the Mother City’s favourite son. He symbolises so much of what it means to be Capetonian, especially his lifelong outlook that your background does not determine who you become. So when he returned home to coach Cape Town City this season, his presence immediately galvanised the landscape of Cape football. 4. He may have missed out on winning Fifa’s Puskas Award to Arsenal’s Olivier Giroud, but Baroka FC goalkeeper Oscarine Masuluke got to mix it with some of world football’s most famous names. The keeper’s nomination - for a last-gasp bicycle kick goal - was enough to imprint South African football in the minds of many across the football universe. 5. SuperSport United’s place in the Caf Confederation Cup final is another major fillip for South African football. That’s four Caf finals since 2013 - and it’s a clear signal that, finally, PSL clubs are taking continental inter-club competitions seriously. At the end of the day, such a commitment can only be good for the progress of the sport in South Africa. The worst 1. Bafana Bafana’s home and away defeats to Cape Verde in the 2018 World Cup qualifying programme is, by far, the lowlight of the year. The South African national team’s spot in Russia hinged on these games, but the performances delivered by the players were, to be brutally honest, spiritless, sub-standard, craven and complacent. 2. The City of Cape Town’s neglect of the Mother City’s football venues is still a serious source of concern. They know the issues with regards to the availability of Cape Town Stadium, so why have they not made sure that they look after Athlone Stadium and other football grounds in the city with a lot more care and attention? 3. The latter part of 2017 has sharply brought into focus question marks about the overall quality of the PSL. Goals continue to be in short supply - in the PSL and Bafana Bafana - leading to a plethora of goalless, mind-numbing draws, coupled with some dreary, almost unwatchable games. All this has seemingly reinforced the perception that football is on the decline - and the more the sponsors’ money rolls in, the more the on-field product continues to nosedive. My wish list for 2018 1. For the City of Cape Town to give Cape Town City the necessary go-ahead to build their own football facility, which will solve their training and home match venue problems. 2. For Ajax Cape Town to take their rightful place among the upper echelon of PSL clubs. It’s time for the Parow club to live up to potential. 3. For Bafana Bafana to perform with more humility and greater consistency, and then to qualify for the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations in Cameroon. The best 1. Pitso Mosimane winning Caf award The year started on a positive note for the country as Pitso Mosimane became the first South African coach to win Caf’s Coach of the Year award after winning the Champions League with Mamelodi Sundowns in 2016. He beat strong competition from Florent Ibenge, Milutin “Micho” Sredojevic, Nacer Sandjak and Florence Omagbemi. 2 Another continental finalist For the second year in a row South Africa had a finalist in a continental club competition. SuperSport United reached the final of the Confederation Cup to follow in the footsteps of their neighbours Sundowns who were crowned champions of Africa last year. 3 More youngsters given a run More coaches gave youngsters a run in the PSL which saw 17-year-olds Lyle Foster and Wiseman Meyiwa make their debuts for Orlando Pirates and Kaizer Chiefs. This is something that teams like Ajax Cape Town, SuperSport United, Golden Arrows and Wits have been doing and continue to do. 4 End of Hayatou’s reign Madagascar Football Association president Ahmad Ahmad ended Issa Hayatou’s reign when he beat him in the Caf elections in March in Ethiopia. Ahmad’s victory was a welcomed change even though so far he has looked like a Fifa proxy whose strings are pulled in Zurich. We can only hope that will change. 5 More money in Caf competitions The increase in prize money in Caf competitions came into effect this year. The winners of the Champions League got $2.5million (close to R34million) instead of the $1.5million that was previously awarded. SuperSport United would have pocketed $1.25million (around R17million) had they won the Confederation Cup. The worst 1. Bafana Bafana disappoint, again Bafana Bafana made a mess of an easy group in the World Cup qualifiers with just one of their three opponents having appeared in the showpiece. Bafana Bafana finished at the bottom of a group that had 2002 World Cup quarter-finalists Senegal along with Cape Verde and Burkina Faso, who were attempting to qualify for their first World Cup. 2. Loftus violent scenes The violent scenes at Loftus during Mamelodi Sundowns’ 6-0 win over Orlando Pirates in February is something I will never forget. A number of fans were injured, including children, when a group of Orlando 
Pirates’ fans invaded the pitch and clashed with Sundowns’ fans. What’s worse is that the PSL hasn’t punished anyone. 3. The inconsistency This season has been characterised by inconsistency, and not strength, which has led to the small margin of points separating teams. This has seen clubs being more cautious in their approach, which is why so many matches have ended in draws with no one going on a long winning run. My wish list for 2018 1. Packed stadiums The poor attendance at stadiums is something that needs to desperately change as a packed venue produces an amazing atmosphere. 2. More money in the NFD The NFD has been 
underfunded for years, that needs to change for a league that’s a breeding ground for talent. 3 The women’s league materialises The proposed national women’s league to be launched in 2019 will go a long way in improving the standard of football. The best 1. Following a 29-year reign as the head of African football, Issa Hayatou, aged 70, was finally ousted as Caf president and succeed by Ahmad Ahmad. The Cameroonian administrator was credited with a lot of what is good about the federation, but also risked seeing it stuck in the stone age. 2. It was incredible to witness Wits, the oldest club in the PSL, clinch it’s first ever league championship in May. This was the Clever Boys’ only title in nearly a century of being in existence, and it took coach Hunt four seasons to build towards that major achievement. 3. Bafana Bafana, in new coach Stuart Baxter’s first official match in his second spell with the national team, travelled to Uyo in Nigeria in June and took down the Super Eagles with an emphatic 2-0 victory at the Godswill Akpabio International Stadium. This was South Africa’s first ever win over Nigeria in a competitive match. 4. Although their campaign at the tournament proper ended in disappointment, the men’s Under-20 team booking a ticket to the Fifa Youth World Cup in South Korea was some milestone. As many as eight players from that squad are playing for their senior teams in the PSL, and seven are regulars. 5. It’s refreshing to have seen more South African coaches get PSL jobs instead of their European counterparts. With the exception of Sredojevic at Orlando Pirates, locals manage all of South Africa’s so-called top clubs. John Comitis also took a gamble on McCarthy to hand him his first ever head coaching gig. The worst 1. Bafana Bafana’s failure to qualify for next year’s World Cup in Russia has to stand out as the lowlight of the year, especially considering they were joint top of the standings at the beginning of 2017. This until Shakes Mashaba was dismissed for an act of insubordination and Baxter replaced him. 2. South African clubs were hoping to build on from Sundowns being crowned Champions League winners last year, but the Brazilians could not defend their title, being knocked out in the quarter-finals. Then their crosstown rivals SuperSport missed the opportunity to clinch the Confederation Cup, falling at the last hurdle against TP Mazembe. 3. Safa didn’t get off to an ideal start to the year after sacking Mashaba a few days before Christmas. With several candidates lined up, the association made a complete mess of hiring a Bafana Bafana coach, unable to agree terms with Herve Renard and Hugo Broos. Baxter was eventually given the job, but the entire process took five months to conclude. My wish list for 2018 1. Here’s to hoping the PSL is a bit more entertaining in the second half of the season, with more goals. 2. Bafana Bafana must not lose a single game, even friendlies, to improve their Fifa and Caf ranking. They must qualify for the 2019 Afcon. 3. With five teams representing Africa at the World Cup in Russia, the continent is again crossing fingers that one of the teams can get beyond the quarter-finals. The best 1. South Africa beating Nigeria for the first time in a competitive match, and away from home to boot. Second-half goals by Tokelo Rantie and Percy Tau in Uyo in a 2019 Africa Cup of Nations qualifier got South Africa across the mental block of never having beaten the Super Eagles in a competitive outing. 2. Cape Town City’s storming debut season. The Mother City needed a second club and City arrived with a bang, grabbing third place in the league which qualified them for the Confederation Cup. Their continued rise, finishing runners-up in the MTN8 and being among the early league pace-setters, shows they mean business this season. 3. Masuluke making it to the final round of the Puskas Award. Although the prize for the Goal of the Year category at the Best Fifa Football Awards went to Giroud for his “scorpion kick”, the Baroka FC goalkeeper put the South African league on the global map with his acrobatic stunner. 4. The confidence of Baroka FC coach Kgoloko Thobejane, often mistaken for arrogance, has been a breath of fresh air. His remarks, such as “football can kill you” were serious, but brought humour to the sport. That Baroka’s bright start to this season matches his confident words when they got promoted, is a sign that he must be doing something right. 5. The growth of women’s football is a boost for the sport. From more players moving to professional leagues abroad, to the emergence of local coaches like Desiree Ellis, women’s football is creating opportunities that some might never have imagined existed. Even if players can’t turn professional, some earn study scholarships which are life changing in the greater South African context. The worst 1. Having players like Thulani Serero expecting guarantees of game time is a slap in the face to the hundreds of players who yearn to reach the level of Bafana Bafana and never make it. South Africa can’t be held ransom by Serero and other players like Kermit Erasmus who can’t stomach being second or third choice. 2. The back-to-back defeats to Cape Verde in home and away 2018 World Cup qualifiers in a week barricaded South Africa’s road to Russia. After the loss in Praia, Bafana Bafana were still in with a chance of qualifying thanks to the draw between Burkina Faso and Senegal, but inexplicably collapsed to the islanders in the return clash in Durban. 3. Orlando Pirates supporters invading the pitch after Sundowns went 6-0 up in a league match at Loftus in February was a black mark for supporters. They damaged stadium property and broadcast equipment. In July a stampede outside the FNB Stadium where Orlando Pirates and Kaizer Chiefs contested a pre-season friendly further highlighted supporters’ misbehaviour and organisers’ poor planning. My wish list for 2018 1. PSL clubs must sign proper strikers. In this digital age, how difficult is it to scour the globe for proper goal scorers? 2. More South African players must follow the route of Phakamani Mahlambi and explore possibilities in North African leagues. 3. The introduction of the magic spray, assistant video referee, and retrospective action for fouls missed by officials, but caught on camera.