ZELDA VENTER
zelda.venter@inl.co.za THE plight of the disabled was once again highlighted in the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria on Wednesday after a group of about 72 disabled, ranging from children to the elderly, were given a lifeline to remain in the block of flats which they allegedly illegally occupied earlier this month. The Gauteng Department of Human Settlements applied for an urgent order preventing more people from moving into the multi-story, partially completed block of flats. The ultimate goal of the department is to obtain an eviction order against this group. The eviction application is only due to be heard next year. The group was, pending the eviction order, interdicted from moving into more of the vacant flats and from erecting informal dwellings on the property. They may also not damage existing structures. The flats are situated in Clayville Extension 45, Tembisa. The department said in papers before court that so far three blocks of the housing units have been occupied by the disabled, who refused to budge. The  Ekurhuleni Municipality owns the property. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  The department said 184 units have been completed, of which 72 were to be occupied soon. About 195 units were 95% completed and 177 at different stages of completion. The property had been classified as a mega project and was identified to house residents of the Madelakufa Informal Settlements, Freedom Square and Tembisa, who have been on a waiting list for housing. Minah Funani, who turned blind when she was a child, and is the leader of the disabled group, said they have had enough. “I have been begging government for housing for the disabled since 96. My pleas fell on deaf ears. Promises were made but nothing came of it.” She said government promised that RDP housing would first go the the most vulnerable - the disabled -  but they are still waiting.
Funani, who attended Wednesday’s court proceedings alongside an array of other disabled people and children, said the disabled lived from a disability grant and did not have money to pay for rent. Until they moved in to the block of flats at the beginning of this month, they were so-called back-yard dwellers and had to pay a lot for inadequate accommodation. “If we cannot get RDP houses, we want to stay here,”  she said. The flats have running water and sanitation, but no electricity. The group hoped that following the court order that they may stay there for now, they will soon get electricity. Community members living in Tembisa meanwhile protested outside court on Wednesday, saying “listen to us”  and “we are also people.”