He was driving his BMW 3 Series in Atteridgeville when he was hijacked by two heavily-armed men who also robbed him of his cellphone at gunpoint near the Shell petrol service station. Makhubela, who is also a city councillor and ANC caucus spokesperson in the council, said the criminals fled in his vehicle and later abandoned it at Lotus Gardens. Describing the experience as scary and traumatic, Makhubela, whose first name means ‘luck’, said the car was recovered with the help of a tracker. His attackers tried to force him to go with them to the bank to force him to withdraw money. “It was traumatic. It is very bad. They were heavily armed.  “They saw my bank cards and wanted me to go with them to the bank to withdraw money. It was at that moment that I ran for my life,” he said. He said he was physically hurt during the attack, but had since fully recovered. He was able to make his way to Atteridgeville police station, where he opened a case of hijacking.  Makhubela said during the search of his vehicle, he overheard police receiving complaints of hijackings in and around the township. “There were so many cases reported. Atteridgeville is not safe.” He said there had not been any breakthrough in terms of tracking down and arresting the perpetrators. “I doubt if the police will even get them,” he said. On Christmas Day, he took to social media, thanking all those who wished him well after the incident. “Merry Christmas to all members of the ANCYL in Tshwane region, all its supporters, former leaders and all the youth of Tshwane east and west, Mamelodi and the peace loving people of Gauteng. “The chairman is discharged, well and sound. Thanks to all for your messages of support and comfort. A special thanks to my best friend and brother comrade Mlungisi Cele and Kabelo Kabaza Tlhabadira who were by my side ever since the incident.” Makhubela also expressed thanks to God for protecting him against his assailants. “We all live by the grace of God. Last night (Saturday) at around 6pm I was hijacked by heavily armed men and thanks to God I am still alive. How I survived the ordeal I don’t know. Later in the night my car was found, although my phone and other belongings were taken, but I am grateful for the tender mercies of the Lord,” he wrote. Police were not immediately available to comment about the incident. In June, the ANCYL in Tshwane endorsed Makhubela as a potential successor to Gauteng chairperson Lebogang Maile, current MEC for the Department of Economic Development. Makhubela was among candidates in the running for the national ANCYL presidency in 2015 in a contest that was eventually won by incumbent Collen Maine. He declined the nomination at the last minute.