Council chief whip Christo van der Heever has decided to investigate the conduct of 23 councillors from the party who opted not to attend the ordinary monthly sitting last Thursday. The investigation followed allegations that the councillors shirked their council duties to embark on party political work at Metsimaholo Local Municipality in the Free State, where they canvassed for votes during last week’s by-election. The Pretoria News has seen Facebook pictures of some party councillors interacting with community members during a door-to-door election campaign. While Van der Heever refused to be drawn on reasons why EFF councillors were absent from council duties, he strongly condemned their conduct. “I condemn such behaviour because as the chief whip I have to look at the discipline of councillors. We have specific rules in place to make sure it happens,” he said Only two of the 25 EFF councillors had filed for leave of absence on the day, he said. He highlighted that there could be penalties for councillors who may be found guilty of failing to attend council sittings. He said the council was drafting a leave policy which would give the City powers to dock 10% from a councillor’s salary for absenteeism. In terms of the policy, a councillor who had been absent for the second consecutive time would lose 15% of his or her salary. Van der Heever said his office was investigating the conduct of the EFF councillors who didn’t pitch. He said he didn’t know whether the speaker’s office would reconvene a special council meeting before the end of the year. “I doubt it, but I can’t rule that out.” Tiyiselani Babane, strategic executive in the office of the speaker, said speaker Katlego Mathebe was concerned about the situation, which ultimately led to the council sitting not forming a quorum. Although he didn’t want to point fingers at a particular party for being in the wrong, Babane said: “The council was supposed to start the business of the day.  "I am not putting blame on anyone but I believe the meeting should have gone ahead.” He said the collapse of the meeting bore some negative implications for the council's work.  For example, he said, certain reports, which were to have been approved could not be approved. EFF leader Benjamin Disoloane again failed to give his party’s version of the story despite having promised to do so. Party insiders, however, indicated that councillors were assigned to take part in political work on the day of the council sitting. While some party councillors canvassed for votes in Metsimaholo, others were preoccupied with the launch of EFF branches in the City, party insiders said. They said the launch was in preparation for their regional conference at which a new leadership would be elected. One member said: “We wanted to teach the DA a lesson that it can’t do anything without us.” The “fighter” claimed the DA was in cahoots with the ANC when it went on a recruitment drive for workers under the Expanded Public Works Programme.  “During the recruitment process we saw the ANC busing in people from outside to go to register,” he said. The stayaway by EFF councillors is the second this year. In August party councillors’ absence was linked to problems the EFF was having with the DA in Nelson Mandela Bay metro. It followed the axing of that city's deputy mayor Mongameli Bobani. Last week's sitting of the council had to be postponed because the council was inquorate due to the absence of the EFF councillors.