The degradation of the inner city of Pretoria buildings has been a headache for city and province at large for at least 20 years. We take a look at some of the buildings that residents have complained about in the past year. Residents want the dilapidated buildings to be demolished as they harbour criminals. The buildings of concern include; the Van Riebeeck medical building on the corner of Francis Baard and Lillian Ngoyi streets, Morester on the corner of Beckett and Pretorius streets, Poynton’s Building near Church Square and  Karel Schoeman building on Nana Sita Street, as well as various other properties in Pretoria West. The Van Riebeeck medical building had shops and rooms that were rented out to medical practitioners, but a fire broke out in 2010 and damaged the top floors. Tenants had already vacated by the time of the fire and the building was illegally inhabited by squatters. The entrance to the building has been closed a few years now. It has since become a haven for drug dealers and prostitutes. Another once majestic building that now stands out like a sore thumb is the Morester Building in Arcadia. The building, on the corner of Beckett and Pretorius streets, looks like a slum, and residents and owners of other properties complained that its state of disrepair has led to a spike in crime. There are people sleeping outside and using the pavement as a toilet. Because of the state that the building is in, people are using the Pretorius Street entrance as a dumping ground. The accumulation of trash attracts rodents, and in particular rats.The City said it was not responsible for the upkeep of the building, while government departments said they would have to investigate who should maintain it. The building has broken windows dotting the walls, missing window panes, a strong stench and evidence of homeless people sleeping in doorways and the parking area. Referred to as the “police flats”, the building stands out in its vicinity. It is a towering tarnished 12-storey structure that hasn't been upgraded in years. Another famous building is Melgisedek  in Riviera. It was condemned by the city more than a year ago, but not much has been done to save the many people who live there. The Melgisedek eyesore is a sad story of squalor and crime. The building was condemned as being unfit for human habitation more than two years ago and has been continuing to decay. Residents said nothing had been done since and the condition of the property was worsening. In August, the Gauteng MEC for Infrastructure Development, Jacob Mamabolo, started an initiative to take back all government properties in Tshwane that were hijacked. Mamabolo led the charge to reclaim illegally occupied and dilapidated buildings in the city, many of which have been unlawfully occupied for a very long time. Mamabolo, accompanied by department officials and police, circled the city buildings serving illegal occupants with eviction notices. One of the buildings was the shabby looking Poynton’s Building. Several occupants were caught with their pants down, other shifting the blame to alleged landlords. The majority of occupants said they too were subletting from the alleged property owners. Mamabolo promised to revamp the building. He also visited the grimy Karel Schoeman building in Nana Sita Street. The vacant building reeked of urine with a sea of garbage on its floors and, what looked like “nyaope”users slept at the entrance. Again, Mamabolo vowed to to clean up the building to make it more attractive to private investors for business. Pretoria West has also had an increase in the number of dilapidated, hijacked buildings. It increased from 430 to 500 properties this year alone. Earlier this year, protesters burnt down a few houses in the area. The abandoned houses were believed to be the scene of prostitution and drug peddling. One of those houses is a house called the Doll House in Rosetta Street. Neighbours alleged the landlord, Anne Marie van Zyl, was renting out her house to foreign nationals who ran a brothel and a drug den.The community said it had tried, but failed, to engage the police on several occasions. When the Pretoria News arrived at the house, there were two young half naked females sitting at the back of the burnt down house. There were numerous condom packets on the floor, along with dresses and shoes. These are just a few examples of the abandoned buildings turned into drug and prostitution dens in the area. Another area in the CBD, home to numerous dilapidated buildings, is the  infamous Brown Street. This was once a proud gathering point in the CBD where many a union march started, and is now a shadow of its former self, with nyaope smokers and dealers openly doing business on the street. The street contains numerous dilapidated, hijacked buildings, notorious crime hotspots, urban decay, degeneration of infrastructure and general lawlessness in this once-glorious part of the city. Mayor Solly Msimanga said: “Derelict buildings often harbour criminals and rob our city of the economic productivity needed to enhance the quality of life for all residents." He promised to deal with them as part of the City's rejuvenation programme. With so many people homeless, we can only hope and cross our fingers that the City and province will repair these dilapidated properties and house the homeless.