He appointed the body to clamp down on unethical and corrupt conduct by people in the private and public sectors. The council is led by members of civil society, including activists and campaigners against corruption from all walks of life. In an interview with the Pretoria News, Makhura said the civil society council was one of its kind in the country and answered the need of investing in the culture of changing corruption. “I know other countries where governments have it. South Africans need to take the fight against corruption to the next level. Just talking about it and setting up commissions is not enough,” he said. According to him, the corruption-fighting initiative would combat what he called a “corruption contagion” inherent in society.  “We are not investing in changing (corruption) culture; corruption must not be something that can be tolerated.” The investment in changing the culture of corruption should also appreciate work done by officials, who stand up against wrongdoing. “In the public sector there are officials - some of whom lose their jobs for standing upright. So we need to cultivate a culture where there are people in organisations who uphold values of society,” he said. It was the government’s intention to create an environment where the corrupt must be isolated and faced shame because of their unethical conduct, he said. Makhura said the body would be preoccupied with identifying the types of corruption taking place in government departments and reporting them to him. “They will advise me and the cabinet in the province.” Tender-related corruption, which involved billions, would be a prime focus for the body. There were areas such as licensing departments, which were also tainted with corruption, Makhura said. He said people were asked to pay bribes before they could renew their licences. Makhura said his administration had an open tender system used as an instrument to “give out the tenders to ensure that there is no corruption”. He said the new entity would have teeth to combat crime and corruption. “We have a lot of anti-corruption entities in government. They just need to have teeth; they must do their work.” It was not enough to have only government institutions charged with fighting corruption, he said. “You need a civil society-led initiative to help us in government to be held accountable on issues of ethics and integrity. This advisory council is made up of activists and campaigners against corruption,” Makhura said.