RUDZANI MATSHILI
rudzani.matshili@inl.co.za THE expulsion for life of 2 student-activists from Rhodes University, for their participation in anti-rape protests saw the birth of #RhodesWar; in which people have taken to social media to react and lambast the university's decision under the hashtag.  
The expulsion was handed down on November 17 to the students after they were found guilty of assault, kidnapping, insubordination and defamation. One of the students expelled, final year BA-student Yolanda Dyantyi, said they were planning on appealing the university's decision in the high court in Grahamstown.  In April last year, students protested against rape culture at the university which led to the institution shutting down and disruptions of lectures, which the expelled students were part of.  
For the past three days, the hashtag gained momentum with more people sharing their views including celebrities and officials. The issue of patriarchy and racism were brought up.  
@Zarbznguni tweeted: “I'm weeping deeply with every single Rhodes womxn that was expelled. I'm so sorry. I don't even have the words. I'm so triggered. I'm f****ng angry. We're just not winning against rape man.”  
Television and radio personality Lerato Kganyago was among the celebrities who had their say.  “So basically Rhodes is normalizing Rape Culture!!! How do you punish those that stand up against rapists??. 
“What is happening in Rhodes is disturbing,”she said.  Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng‏ @CJMogoeng said: “ University has became a problem for students to deal with leaving them vulnerable, as it is the culture of rape and racism is indirectly perpetuated by powers that should be looking after such campuses, outsourcing has really eaten our institutions.” 
@AthiHo said the matter not only affected those expelled but female high school learners who wished to enroll with the institution.  
“A little prayer for female matriculants who will be starting at Rhodes next year,” she said. Zinhle Buthelezi‏ wrote: “So Rhodes university endorses both rape culture and institutional racism. Cecil John Rhodes would be proud of his namesake.” 
Many also failed to understand why the activists were expelled while the rape-accused only received a 10-year ban.
“A rape is a rape, culprit must be given death sentence irrespective of the age of the girl who got raped or the boy who raped. We as a society should not tolerate the rapists,” @GeorgeBeatsSA said.  
Seipati Tshabalala‏ said the country’s universities would rather protect rapists than allow student activists to address rape culture.
Rhodes in a statement, said it noted "with deep concern the gross misrepresentations of facts and cynical attempts at manipulating public opinion by some of the students who have been excluded from the University for committing criminal acts". 
"There is a clear distinction between vigorously pursuing our common objective of eliminating sexual and gender-based violence on the one hand and using such a noble cause as a cover to commit acts of criminality, which serve to undermine a noble struggle. "A comprehensive response in relation to all the issues raised will be issued as a matter of urgency. The issues were ventilated in processes involving the High Court, the Supreme Court of Appeals and the Constitutional Court." 
The university added that the sanction against the two expelled students was meted out by an Independent Panel and was not related to them participating in protect action. "It is related, instead to "unlawful acts" which the courts found to have made serious inroads into the rights and liberties of others," Rhodes said.