Pretoria - ‘I did not buy cars for former police commissioner Lieutenant-General Khomotso Phahlane and his family members. I also did not sponsor police to travel to London to watch a soccer game featuring Manchester United.” 
This was the vehement response of Keith Keating, of Forensic Data Analysts (FDA), over damning allegations that his company had obtained major tenders from the SAPS allegedly amounting to billions of rand, due to his alleged friendship with Phahlane. Phahlane has denied the allegations. Keating made a similar denials. He said the reasons for the allegations, was a plot by certain people to take over his company. He added that it had been concocted in a similar manner the Guptas allegedly took over Optimum Mine. Earlier this month, the Hawks raided the properties of Phahlane and Keating following a report by police watchdog Ipid that linked them to acts of illicit dealings. In that report, it was alleged that Phahlane’s family members, wife and sister benefited from the deals as well. The allegations that Keating sponsored a trip for a soccer match were made by the DA’s Tim Brauteseth during Scopa meeting in Parliament on December 7. Brauteseth produced the photograph of the two SAPS members posing with Keating in Manchester United-branded shirts with their names on the back and standing outside Old Trafford, Manchester. But Keating denies the claims. He said the two officers were in Cambridge for an officially sanctioned conference regarding radio frequency identification technology. He said he attended the same conference. In his defence, Keating said the purpose of the allegations against him were arbitrarily aimed at ending his contracts with the police service. He said unnamed people were spreading the rumours after they failed to secure huge shares in his company. “The FDA has been exposed to hostile corporate takeover tactics which began with a demand to hand over shares in the company without compensation, with stern threats of dire consequences should these demands not be met. “Proof of these threats have been reported to Sita (State Information Technology Agency), but no action has been taken to date,” Keating said. He compared threats of a takeover of his company was similar to the Guptas-style takeover of the Optimum Mine through Tegeta - whose shareholders include President Jacob Zuma’s son Duduzane. “These are reminiscent of the methods employed to force Optimum Coal into business rescue, allowing it to be bought for scraps by Tegeta and to take over Optimum’s government coal supply contracts. It is now common cause that a series of irregularities had given rise to Tegeta’s takeover of Optimum. “Moreover, there is reason to believe that an ongoing rift between two high-ranking government officials may also be at play in this matter. This became clear subsequent to a raid being performed on various properties, purportedly focused on Lieutenant-General Phahlane,” Keating said. He did not reveal the names of the high-ranking government officials. In the matter related to vehicles, Keating confirmed knowing car dealer Durand Snyman but denied purchasing vehicles for Phahlane and his family from him. Keating said he did not buy cars and instead purchased a game farm and equipments from Snyman. “The numbers reported in the media, alleged to have been payments for those vehicles, do not accurately add up; as these numbers purport that some of the vehicles were not purchased by Snyman’s customers, when they were in fact purchased by Snyman’s customers. "Affidavits that were submitted in support thereof were disregarded and have not been mentioned in media or parliamentary reports,” Keating added. Pretoria News