The official tally was 2261 votes for Dlamini Zuma and 2440 votes for Ramaphosa. It was a close victory but in the end Ramaphosa was called to the podium to take his place as the president of the ANC 23 years after he had been overlooked for the role of deputy president of the country. Mpumulanga Premier David Mabuza was elected deputy president with 2538 votes; former secretary-general Gwede Mantashe was elected National Chairman with 2418 votes; Ace Magashula was elected Secretary-General with 2360 votes; Jessie Duarte retained her Deputy Secretary-General position with 2470 votes and Paul Mashatile was elected Treasurer-General with 2517 votes.  Ramaphosa founded the National Union of Mineworkers and was instrumental in negotiating the handover from white minority rule to a democratic era. Dlamini Zuma is a former health, home affairs and foreign affairs minister. She is also a former chairperson of the African Union. In the months before the elective conference both candidates presented their campaign agendas - Ramaphosa had his "new deal" and Dlamini Zuma pushed for “radical economic transformation”. The day before the conference started two Provincial Executive Committees - that of the Free State and KwaZulu-Natal - were told by the party’s National Executive Committee that they would have to abide by court judgments and not play a voting role at the conference.  On Saturday President Jacob Zuma announced free education for those whose families earn less than R350000 a year.  On Sunday, the credentials process went smoothly and by late afternoon those who had been nominated for the Top Six had been announced. Outgoing ANC Treasurer-General Zweli Mkhize who had campaigned long and hard for the position of president told delegates he would decline nomination for the position of deputy president of the party.  Voting started at midnight yesterday and finished by midday. Yesterday also marked the last press conference of outgoing Secretary-General Gwede Mantashe. The latter, who had a sometimes fractious relationship with journalists, was asked about his relationship with Zuma.  He said: “You can have a problem with President Zuma, but you can never have a problem with his ability to talk to the masses. That is a rare gift. Very critical for the ANC.” The elective part of the conference may be over but from today delegates will focus on policies that need to be implemented over the next five years.