The event was held at the Summit College in Midrand.  Crawford Preparatory Pretoria and Copperleaf College represented the capital.  Copperleaf College, in Centurion, scooped the social sciences primary school category award. The college's winning team included Kyle Pillay, Babalo Mthuzula, Moronfoluwa Opaleye, Onthatile Matjeding, Eza Mkosana, Allan Sithole and Kefentse Mashaba. Crawford Preparatory Pretoria, in Lukasrand, was awarded in the maths engineering primary school category. Its team included  Zaais van Zyl, Rafael Aviles Coello, Ilham Ismail, Kauthar Adam, Mpho Nonkonyana, Makanaka Dumbu and Mia Karimba.  They also bagged the “spirit of the tournament” award. “The Tournament of Minds involves pupils getting challenges to solve problems," said senior deputy principal of Crawford Preparatory Pretoria Chrisna Swanepoel.  "Learners from Grade 5 to 7 have the opportunity to have a challenge sent to them a month before the tournament, to solve and prepare and have an impromptu challenge to prepare in front of the judges and audience,” Swanepoel said. Months before the tournament, pupils from the city schools practised for half an hour before classes commenced, honing their problem solving skills.  When the competition drew close, strong teams were chosen to participate in the tournament.  They had to work on their own without the help of their mentors or teachers. Swanepoel said the tournament was special and an emotionally  testing time for the school, as it happened after it received the terrible news that its principal, Ian McLeod, had died. Emotional and proud of the pupils, Swanepoel said the pupils chose to not pull out of the tournament, but to participate in memory of McLeod. The tournament was aimed at providing youngsters with the opportunity to extend their knowledge and understanding, by providing solutions to real-world, open-ended problems. It also did this by  developing the team’s individual and group skills, thinking, communication and time management skills, and the expectation to have to work collaboratively to provide a solution for the challenge they wished to solve. Swanepoel said the school applauded the winning teams when they came back from the tournament, and the pupils were motivated to represent the capital city.