But a number of South African news organisations had earlier in the day pronounced 51-year-old former soccer star George Weah as the new president-elect. Almost 2.2 million voters were choosing between Weah and 73-year-old Vice-President Joseph Boakai. This news even prompted reporting that South African President Jacob Zuma had congratulated Weah on his victory. When polls closed on Tuesday, Weah, a former winner of the Fifa World Footballer of Year trophy, the Ballon d’Or, tweeted: “It is with deep emotion that I want to thank you, the Liberian people, for honouring me with your vote today. Is is a great hope. #Liberia #Liberia2017.” The winner of the run-off poll will replace Africa’s first female head of state, Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, who is stepping down after two terms. State radio correspondents reported unofficial results overnight but authorities warned the two parties to “stop making premature pronouncements”. This is the first time in 70 years the nation founded by freed American slaves will see one democratically elected government hand power to another. Queues were short and some polling stations were near empty as voters cast their ballots on Tuesday. Weah, representing the Coalition for Democratic Change, won 38.8% of votes in the first round of voting on October 10. Boakai, leader of the ruling Unity Party, came in second with 28.8%. After casting their ballots, Boakai and Weah both told reporters they were confident of winning unconcerned about the low turnout. Weah said he believed “Liberians’ wish for a change of administration will be demonstrated at the polls”. “Liberians believe in me,” Boakai said, noting he was ready to accept any election outcome as long as it was free, fair and transparent. The run-off, initially scheduled for November 7, was delayed after the party of a third candidate filed a complaint of “massive fraud and irregularities”. The Supreme Court ultimately cleared the way for the vote to go ahead on December 26. Voters could cast their votes at more than 5300 polling stations. Vote counting was still under way late yesterday. Election observers described the process as “generally peaceful and smooth”. Compared to the October 10 general elections that witnessed a huge turnout of voters, a low turnout was recorded. In the capital city of Monrovia, there was a heavy presence of security personnel in all polling centres. Neither Boakai nor Weah was able to secure the 51% valid votes required by law to be elected president in the first round in October. The elections pave the way for Johnson Sirleaf to peacefully hand over power to a successor chosen by the people. Johnson Sirleaf, 72, is often dubbed the “Iron Lady” and will retire after two six-year terms. Africa’s first female head of state, she shared the 2011 Nobel Peace Prize with her compatriot Leymah Gbowee and pro-democracy activist Tawakkul Karman of Yemen. The last peaceful transfer of power between two democratically elected presidents took place in Liberia in 1944, when president Edwin Barclay was replaced by William Tubman. Founded by freed American and Caribbean slaves, Liberia has had a turbulent history, with a brutal civil war notorious for its use of child soldiers that claimed more than 250000 lives and displaced a million people. The war ended in 2003, and 
former warlord and president Charles Taylor has since been sentenced to 50 years in prison by The Hague for war crimes. Liberia is one of the poorest countries in the world and has struggled with the aftermath of the 2013-15 Ebola crisis, which killed more than 4 000 people. Boosting the economy, creating jobs and fighting corruption were high on the agenda of Boakai’s and Weah’s campaigns. Boakai, a former agriculture minister and World Bank consultant, has pledged to prioritise infrastructure development to open Liberia to regional and international trade. His 12 years as vice-president and experience working in various economic sectors were expected to gain many votes. His rival, retired striker Weah, is a senator described as an idol by Liberians and highly regarded for his down-to-earth attitude. Weah was born in a slum in Monrovia and worked as a switchboard technician at the national telecommunications company before gaining football fame. Weah’s strategically chosen running mate is Jewel Howard-Taylor, ex-wife of Charles Taylor, who divorced the jailed autocrat in 2006 and then built her own political career. Howard-Taylor, 54, was elected senator in 2005 and has since then impressed Liberians with her commitment to improving infrastructure. - AP, DPA, Xinhua, Staff Writer