As in previous years, the conference also had various sessions addressing different science and technology aspects. But stalls displaying various products and inventions were set, with aspiring scientists and delegates from various countries engaging with the exhibitors. Flyers and pamphlets about bursaries for students who wished to pursue careers in science and technology were distributed during the the exhibition. One stall that captivated attendees consisted of an Augmented Mobility for the Disabled Wheelchair, developed by Tshwane University of Technology students. It focuses on mobility users with general debilitations in their upper body limbs. Exhibitor Karabo Sedumedi said: “Existing wheelchairs seem to not promote safety measures to the mobility aid used by persons with mobility disabilities. “Mobility aid users often face a number of challenges in their everyday lives such as a debilitations in both their upper and lower limbs.” However, with their invention the opposite was the case. “This wheelchair requires less energy than your manual controlled wheelchair, this one is aimed at one’s rehabilitation process. “For example when you are fresh from hospital and wheelchair bound, you get discouraged because you have to use all your energy pushing, but this one makes one relax due to less energy spent on operating it,” she said. Sedumedi said the energy was rather focused on healing. The invention also prevents the possibility of wheelchair tipping and collusion with objects, she said. Traditional medicine practitioners couple Ephraim and Mabel Mabena from Mamelodi were also among the exhibitors at the conference. The couple partnered with the Department of Science and Technology and University of Pretoria to bring traditional and western science together. “We are working with the department and the university on bio prospective because government is promoting traditional medicines. These products are made out of indigenous plants,” Ephraim said. The partnership, he said, encouraged that traditional and western science should work together. Among the products displayed were sunscreen and body lotions of the Organic Care brand. Ephraim has, for the past few years, made the CSIR his home and during this time they have said his products were great and could definitely protect one’s skin. Today, exhibitors will again return in their respective stands and continue where they left off yesterday. 