National army commander General Phillip Sibanda said the operation was launched by the security services “to remove criminals that had surrounded former president (Robert Mugabe) resulting in anxiety and despondency among our people”. Without naming her, one of the people Sibanda was referring to was former first lady Grace Mugabe who played a key role in a faction within Zanu-PF known as G40. It sought to ensure that her husband stayed on in power for the rest of his life and was the Zanu-PF candidate in elections next year, at the age of 94. She led several rallies last year where she insulted former vice-president Emmerson Mnangagwa and others close to him, while she also became infamous in Zimbabwe for her massive accumulation of property and spending habits. Mugabe sacked Mnangagwa on November 5, and he fled the country to South Africa, from where he and several war veterans, in consultation with the army, appear to have arranged to take over the country, which happened with hardly a shot fired. Two seniors from G40, former cabinet ministers Jonathan Moyo and Saviour Kasukuwere fled the country. A few other seniors within this faction or its sympathisers kept a low profile for several weeks, and the former vice-president, Phelekezela Mphoko, in Japan on official business at the time, then went to Botswana, but has returned home. Former finance minister Ignatius Chombo was arrested at the start of the takeover, and was blindfolded and illegally detained by the military for about 10 days and then released to the police where he was charged with corruption and released with tough bail conditions. At least two senior public servants have also been charged with corruption. One man who was carrying a gun around Harare, threatening to kill Mnangagwa, was arrested, charged and referred to doctors for evaluation. Sibanda said the military takeover of Zimbabwe had “wider implications on the political, economic and social activities of our people. In this regard, a new dispensation has been ushered in to take Zimbabwe into its rightful place within the SADC and the world at large”. He said the highlight of the military’s operation had been the resignation of “former president Mugabe from the seat of power, inauguration of the second executive president, appointment of a new cabinet and the Extraordinary Congress of the ruling Zanu-PF party. Normalcy has returned and for this reason we announce the end of Operation Restore Legacy.” He said the military wanted to “thank all Zimbabweans for their support, patience and understanding during the five weeks. “We understand and regret the inconvenience and anxiety that the operation might have caused in certain circles of our nation” He also thanked the security services and war veterans who “mobilised” people for the massive turnout of support on the streets of Harare - the biggest demonstration in the history of Zimbabwe - on November 19. But he also warned the faction within Zanu-PF, known as G40, which “clustered around the head of state” were now bad-mouthing the country from foreign lands where their intention to harm the peace and tranquillity that existed in the country have been pronounced. “It is the duty of every Zimbabweans to ensure these malcontents and saboteurs and others of like mind are not allowed to succeed.” He said the defence forces had now handed back normal law and order matters to the police.