Mokoena, 29, has been shortlisted in the Award for Academic as well as Public Servant of the Year categories.  She is among the 140 young Africans and organisations from 25 countries chosen as finalists. The student enjoys learning and has a passion for teaching, hence her choice to become an academic researcher.  Mokoena lectures part-time at the university and holds an MA in political studies from Wits University.  She is the youngest faculty member at the Thabo Mbeki 
African Leadership Institute where she teaches African feminism and Gender Studies and 
has co-ordinated and participated in two multi-country research projects. Mokoena’s research interests are decolonial political economy, gender, feminism, Indigenous Knowledge System, African politics, regional integration and regionalism, youth and the fourth industrial revolution.  The co-author of a book also holds a Ruth First award for research excellence and enjoys doing community development work, previously working with 
communities in Pretoria, but this year she is focusing on her Sedibeng ancestral home.  She also engages communities, particularly pupils and parents, on the challenge of xenophobia, among other things. Mokoena is in Ghana participating in the 8th AU Youth Volunteer Corps pre-deployment training as a trainer.  The political activist influenced by feminism and pan-African ideals is the interim deputy chairperson of the yet to be launched Pan-African Federal Movement (Southern Africa Chapter). When she isn’t occupied with work, she writes poetry and sometimes attempts to teach herself how to dance to try to remain youthful.  The Africa Youth Awards competition was launched in 2014 and is the continent’s most coveted awards for young achievers and change-makers It has become a recognised platform for young Africans to showcase what contributions they have made to the success of the continent thus far, and the potential that they possess to take Africa to the next level across various key industries. The winners will be publicly announced on January 1.