Mbuyiselo Botha, commissioner with the Commission for Gender Equality, said the campaigns over the years had turned the tide.  As a result of the awareness, he said, it was no longer considered fashionable for men to raise their hands to women and children. Botha said while many did not acknowledge the progress made as crime statistics painted a grim picture, there was no denying that communities were shunning abusers more often. “There can be no disputing that there is this social condemnation that has been created by these campaigns.  “We have young men and boys now mobilising to be allies of women. "This is something that would not have been fashionable years ago. “Yes, there are cynics who say these campaigns are more like money-making schemes, but these campaigns are steps to undoing the damage that has been done to men through institutionalised violence.” While many people were calling for the government to expand the campaign to 365 days, it was more important for initiatives to become owned by the women and men in the various communities, he said. “This notion is displaced because it makes us lazy. “It’s like we’re saying until it is made law or programmed by the government only then will we do something.  “Where are the faith-based and trade organisations?” he asked. Professor Nokuthula Mazibuko, senior lecturer at Unisa's department of sociology, said attempts to implement a year-long campaign between 2007 and 2011 proved to be challenging for the government, partly due to funding. Mazibuko said, however, it was costing South Africa between R28.4billion and R42.4bn a year of GDP to deal with gender-based violence. With that amount counting for between 0.9% and 1.3% of the GDP, Mazibuko said the money could be channelled to ensure that instead of a 16-day campaign, a year-long awareness was created. “Aside from campaigns, there are additional challenges facing government institutions and the SAPS which continue to hamper the effective implementation of campaigns aimed at combating the scourge of violence against women and children,” she said. “One of the challenges is the SAPS’ capacity to gather DNA, record accurate data and statistics on gender based violence in particular sexual assault and rape," Mazibuko said. "Even though there is the tool of the rape kit, South Africa has limited resources and forensic science laboratories.” She said gender-based violence was prevalent in all nine provinces, yet the main laboratories were only in Pretoria, Cape Town, Port Elizabeth and Durban. Another challenge noted by Mazibuko was that domestic violence 
was particularly hard to measure as the police did not keep separate 
statistics on assault cases perpetrated by husbands or boyfriends. She said this was because domestic violence in itself was not a crime category, even though national instructions relating to the implementation of the Domestic Violence Act stated that incidents were to be recorded in a register. “When cases of domestic violence are reported to the police, they are usually under a range of different categories, such as assault, malicious damage to property, pointing a gun and murder,” Mazibuko added. As a way forward, she said, the country needed for cases to be 
prosecuted and investigated in a unique and particular way because too often once they reached court, the factors of class and race then came into play.