Pretoria The media should be barred from revealing the identities of child victims, offenders and witnesses even after they had turned 18-years, unless a court gave the go-ahead in a specific case. This was the argument on behalf of children rights groups, who on Thursday asked the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria to gag the media from revealing the identities of these children. The Centre for Child Law, Childline and NICRO, wants the court to provide more clarity as to the rights of these children. It wants the court to interpret the Criminal Procedure Act as to mean that it protected the rights of these children, even after they had turned 18. Judge Wendy Hughes was asked by these groups to refer the provisions which protect the rights of children back to the legislature for reconsideration, if it was, in its current form, not flexible enough to bar the media from identifying these children. The law at present protects the identity of child witnesses and child offenders who are involved in criminal cases. It was over the years understood by the media that once a child offender or witness had turned 18, that person was no longer considered a child and thus no longer protected by the law. The law, is however, unclear on the issue whether a child victim under the age of 18 is protected by the law. This issue came under the spotlight during the Zephany Nurse case the girl who was kidnapped from a hospital shortly after she was born. It was only when she was 17 years-old and nine months, that her biological parents had found her. The media wanted to publish her identity once she had turned 18, but Zephany, identified in court papers only as KL, wanted to protect her identity, as she said the matter was extremely traumatic for her. She, with the aid of the Centre for Child Law, obtained an order barring the media from identifying her, pending the outcome of this week s legal battle. The media houses, including Independent Media, on Thursday agreed that this order will remain in place pending the outcome of any appeals which may follow. The applicants in the present legal battle argued that the law should also protect child victims from identification and not only child witnesses and offenders. It also wants the protection of these three categories to continue after they had turned 18. Advocate Steven Budlender, acting for the applicants, said this blanket ban should prevail until a court specifically gave permission in certain cases that the identity can be revealed. Advocate Wim Trengove SC, on the other hand, argued on behalf of the media that that there are adequate laws in place to protect children. He argued that having a free media is a vital part of a democracy and that a ban on publication should only be made on a case by case basis. He said placing a blanket ban on ever identifying these three categories of children after they had turned 18, will go too far in limiting the right of freedom of expression. Both parties, however agreed that the issues at stake were not merely how to protect the rights of children, but how to strike a balance between open justice and the rights of children. The arguments are proceeding. [email&#160;protected] Pretoria News