Pretoria After years of public confusion and environmental controversies around the R269 million Skukuza Safari Lodge at the Kruger National Park, Minister of Environmental Affairs Edna Molewa finally turned the sod to mark the start of construction.During the sod-turning ceremony on Saturday, the minister said strategic planning had been a lengthy process fraught with challenges. Molewa said the project was important for economic development in South Africa, especially in rural communities. The project will create over 500 sustainable jobs before and after it has been completed, and it will also support local businesses. She said the project would contribute to the tourism sector and suppliers would be sourced locally. The only suppliers we will be working with are people who stay within 150km of the park.&quot; We want the project to be for the people who stay in the nearby areas, she said. This is an 18-month project. We aim to open the doors for business in the last quarter of 2018. The minister said the new conference Safari Lodge would bring in an additional 128 rooms, which would accommodate about 250 tourists per night. It is envisaged that during the construction phase, about 300 jobs opportunities will become available, and upon completion 250 permanent jobs will be created, she added. The lodge will be inside Skukuza Camp and adjacent Nombolo Mdhluli conference centre.Managing executive for tourism at South African National Parks (SANParks), Hapiloe Sello, said building the lodge had been delayed by people who thought they were sophisticated in nature conservation ethics .Glenn Phillips, managing executive for tourism development and marketing, said the design was limited to two levels and would maintain the Kruger s typical architectural theme. Therefore this design will blend in with the environment, remain below the tree-top canopy and use materials such as thatch, which is typical of the bush style used in the Kruger, he said.* The Pretoria News was at the Kruger National Park on invitation by SANParks.Pretoria News