Pretoria - Raincoats, rubber boots and umbrellas will definitely come in handy this week as heavy rains and flooding are predicted in Pretoria in the aftermath of tropical storm Dineo.Widespread heavy rains are expected over Gauteng, Mpumalanga, Limpopo and parts of North West.These heavy rains are due to an intense low pressure system moving in from Mozambique following former cyclone Dineo that raged through that country last week. Forecaster Jan Vermeulen said the heavy rains would last throughout the week. There is more rain coming to Pretoria this week especially today, he said. There was an 80% chance of showers today and tomorrow.Vermeulen said the possibility of rain would slightly decrease to 60% on Thursday and Friday. Some of the moisture is a result of ex-cyclone Dineo from Botswana, he said.Tshwane Emergency Services spokesman Johan Pieterse said they would be on full alert and would monitor all the known problematic areas during the heavy downpours.He urged residents in low-lying areas to take special care during storms as sudden floods could affect them. Pieterse advised motorists not to drive during severe storms. Should there be severe storms, drivers need to find a safe place to park, and that should be away from electrical lines, trees, streams and rivers, he said.Dineo had left many people homeless, dead and injured. It claimed seven lives and injured 50 in Mozambique.In South Africa, Dineo destroyed 19 homes in Mpumalanga and five in Limpopo. The Kruger National Park also closed some gravel roads as precautionary measures for the storm.SANParks acting head of communications William Mabasa said the decision to close gravel roads was due to safety. He said they hadn t been affected by the storm and had normal rain last Thursday.Mabasa said they kept the gravel roads closed as they did not know what to expect. We have kept the roads closed until we can asses their safety and the weather conditions, he said. They will be closed until they receive feedback.Pretoria News