Pretoria - The parents of twins who allegedly abused the babies, denied any knowledge of how the boy, when he was 11 weeks old, ended up with severe brain damages.His twin sister was taken to hospital with fractured ribs a few days before her brother was rushed to hospital in a critical state. The parents a 26-year-old woman and her now former boyfriend, 28, are facing an array of charges in the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, including attempted murder of the boy and child abuse. Both claimed they did nothing to their children and insisted that they were loving parents. The accused may not be identified as to protect the identity of the children. The mother, who lived in Kempton Park and the father of the twins were never married. They have separated since the incidents which occurred in December 2012. The State on Monday asked Judge Eben Jordaan to convict the parents of attempted murder on the boy, assault and child abuse. Prosecutor Cornelia Harmzen said the twins were since birth being cared for by the parents and they were thus responsible for the injuries. The children, who are now four years old, are living with their mother, in spite of the charges against her. While the girl has recovered from her injuries, the boy is confined to a wheelchair and cannot do anything for himself. The mother claimed that when she went to bed on Christmas Eve in 2012, the twins were in their cribs, happy and sleeping. According to her, she was woken up in the early hours of the morning when her boyfriend alerted her that the child just suddenly stopped breathing. He was standing with the boy in his arms at the time. The father also claimed he had no idea what had happened during the night. He too, said all was well when he went to bed. He claimed he was a very heavy sleeper who would not have woken up if something happened to the baby during the night. He said when he picked the baby up the next morning he went limp in his arms. Doctors earlier testified that the boy s severe brain damage could only have been caused by severe blunt force trauma to the head. The child also had other marks and bruises on his body. His sister was taken to hospital a few days prior, where it was discovered that she had cracked or fractured ribs. In trying to find answers, counsel for the defence on Monday argued that the parents are not to blame, as there are no evidence of wrongdoing on their part. It was even suggested that because they were first time parents, some of the injuries could have been caused due to their clumsiness . It is now up to Judge Jordaan to try and find answers. He said he did not want to rush with a verdict, as he wanted to consider all the evidence carefully, before he delivered his judgment on March 13. zelda.venter@inl.co.zaPretoria News