Pretoria - Resignation was not enough.Criminal charges had to be laid against former health MEC Qedani Mahlangu and she had to face the full might of law, family members of the Life Esidimeni patients who died said on Wednesday. They said Mahlangu and the senior departmental officials responsible for the Gauteng Mental Health Marathon Project, which left 94 mentally ill patients dead could not be allowed to get away with murder .The family members and other stakeholders came out baying for Mahlangu s blood from the moment Gauteng Premier David Makhura announced her resignation on Wednesday, after a report with damning findings of the deaths was released by health ombudsman Professor Malegapuru Makgoba. The report found that the MEC and other senior officials had acted negligently in the placement of 1371 patients in 27 institutions which operated under invalid licences.Ninety-four mentally ill patients are reported to have died in some of the 27 non-governmental organisations which, Makgoba said, lacked basic competencies, expertise and were too poorly resourced to care for the patients.Disabled People South Africa yesterday likened the initial reports of 36 deaths to the Marikana of the disability sector. It said the world failed to rise up and help them find justice and closure on this most tragic moment. What happened at Esidimeni is an indication of the little or no regard that both government and society in general has for the lives of people with disabilities. Unless heads roll and people are jailed for horrendous acts such as these against people with disabilities, they will continue being treated as half-citizens. The organisation said the resignation of the MEC came way too late and they hoped that officials above the MEC who led the patients to what it called the guillotine be brought to book as well.Cope has also come angrily, saying the resignation would not save her from facing criminal charges. She must immediately be charged with culpable homicide because what happened is a direct result of cadre deployment. The ANC deployed the incompetent and arrogant comrades and cadres who do not have a clue when it comes to their responsibilities and are the reason this happened. Jacob Zuma and his entire government must resign or be fired by the people of this country. This is the second tragic incident that happened under Zuma s watch, said Cope spokesperson Dennis Bloem.Bloem said Mahlangu was never fit and suitable to deal with human beings as she prioritised money over human souls and constantly lied about the number of deaths. She had claimed it was political grandstanding from the opposition parties.The PAC, however, said it did not want things to turn into a blame-game as the entire health system was in crisis. The failure is not by one Qedani Mahlangu alone, but the entire health system which is perpetually killing our people. The resignation of an individual will not address our current crises. We just want to see the health sector being revolutionised. The party said moving forward, the health care system needed to focus on preventative measures.Pretoria News