Pretoria The Brooklyn policing area is set to be reclaimed from criminals, community leader and Namola ambassador Yusuf Abramjee has said.Abramjee was speaking after the SAPS Brooklyn combined forces with a hi-tech crime-fighting smartphone application at the weekend by signing a memorandum of understanding. We have to reclaim our streets. Crime affects all of us and we must strengthen partnerships at all levels. #CrimeMustFall and we must also use technology, said Abramjee, who helped launch Primedia s Crime Line. We salute the Brooklyn SAPS for taking the lead and we want other areas to follow. The Namola app is free and it works, he said, calling on residents to download and use it. Help is available at the press of a button, Abramjee said.After installing the Namola application on mobile devices, users will be able to report crimes or emergencies to SAPS patrol vehicles as they happen. Officers will receive information on Namola devices installed in their patrol vehicles which are linked to a control room. This will enable faster response times and more efficient flow of information.When the user sends out an alert, Brooklyn SAPS or Tshwane Metro Police Department vehicles that are Namola app compliant are able to see the exact location of the incident. The first available officer is then directed to the incident while being monitored by the control room, which has the ability to intervene or dispatch help if necessary. While en route to an incident the officer can communicate with the resident, and call if necessary. The purpose of the app was to enhance all crime fighting resources, he said. It gives community members another tool which will give them access to the police during an emergency. However, Abramjee said the Namola app should not be a substitute for calling 10111 in an emergency situation. Brooklyn station commander, Brigadier Kushie Nair, welcomed this working relationship and pilot project with Namola and the metro police. She said that by taking advantage of current technology, the police would make progress in improving reaction time and creating safer communities.Through the app, community members can be important participants in crime fighting by reporting crimes in progress, crimes that have just occurred, or suspicious behaviour, Nair said.Abramjee said the MEC for Community Safety Sizakele Nkosi Malebane had agreed to support Namola, and they would meet soon to discuss possible roll out. We are also getting calls from across SA and we want to use the capital s model in other areas. Pretoria News