Pretoria Mischievous people, hell-bent on causing chaos and attacking foreigners, hijacked Friday s march against crime and were behind the confusion that characterised the proceedings, organisers have claimed.The march was held under the banner of Mamelodi Concerned Citizens and was intended as a peaceful gathering and march to submit a memorandum of grievances to the Department of Home Affairs.Organiser Makgoka Lekganyane said on on Sunday he was angered by the group that hijacked the genuine cause, which was to raise valid concerns about crime. As marchers we adhered to the agreement we had with authorities to march peacefully, he said.He expressed disappointment and dismay at the turn of events, which resulted in a frenzy of looting and violence mainly incited against foreigners. Acts of violence were never a part of the plan, he said, adding that some (media) reports had gone as far as changing the narrative about the purpose of the march by labelling it xenophobic or describing it as anti-immigrant, which was not true, he said.He condemned those who took advantage of the march by causing mayhem. We are deeply saddened by this group that had its own agenda. As the concerned group from Mamelodi we are saying no to xenophobia. The march was marred by violence, looting and a show of arms by both locals and foreigners. It was preceded by the burning of houses, cars and other property in areas west of Pretoria last weekend by residents claiming to be removing criminal elements. Foreign-owned shops which closed were cautiously reopening at the weekend.Roads were barricaded and there were attacks on foreign-owned shops on Friday. The march starting in Marabastad was characterised by the looting of local and foreign vendor stalls, of foreign nationals armed with various weapons to protect themselves and violent incidents. Police used teargas and rubber bullets and patrolled in helicopters.Shukri Diis, chairperson of the Somalis Association, said the attacks against the foreign nationals in Joburg and Pretoria was sparked by some politicians in Joburg. The anti-foreign sentiment is not from the community hosting the foreign nationals; it comes from the political representatives of the people in Johannesburg, he said.He refuted claims that Somalis took away jobs from the locals, saying they instead created jobs in the country. Somalian shops are back in business in Pretoria West. Picture:&nbsp;Thobile Mathonsi This thing was incited by the politicians. The hatred comes from the politicians. The communities have reacted according to the politician's instructions, he said. He urged that someone at government level take accountability for what happened.Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba has denounced Friday s acts of violence. He attended a church service in Sunnyside, where he pleaded with South Africans to show tolerance to foreigners.The incidents of violence against foreigners last week had hurt many people, he said. We have been encouraged and humanity restored by the many voices coming out from everywhere, saying not again, not in our names . We are one people, he said.Genuine concerns about the undocumented immigrants were turned into a source of hatred by those who didn t want to see people living at peace with one another, Gigaba said. Crime is not better when committed by a South African and only worse when committed by an immigrant. Just as we do not talk about black crime, white crime, Zulu or Tswana crime, let us not talk about immigrant crime. A drug dealer who happens to be Nigerian does not mean all Nigerians commit crime. Police spokesperson Vishnu Naidoo said 136 people had been arrested in connection with the march. They were expected to appear in the Pretoria Magistrate s Court on Monday. They would face various charges that included malicious damage to property and theft, he said.Tshwane ANC spokesperson Teboho Joala said the ANC condemned the acts of xenophobic-related activities.People had to work together with the the government to fight crime such as the people peddling crime in the city, he said. We call on the city to desist from firing young people who are legitimately employed because once they are out of work they are going to form part of the problem, he said.Joala castigated executive mayor Solly Msimanga for saying people who took part in the march were also behind last year s protests denouncing the nomination of Thoko Didiza as the ANC's mayoral candidate. He seems to have a political theory that there are people with political motives behind the march, said Joala.Foreign nationals had returned to the communities within which they operated on Sunday, after being housed at the Tshwane Showgrounds from Friday.Meanwhile, the City of Johannesburg has taken steps to safeguard against possible violence against foreigners.The Joburg Metropolitan Police Division (JMPD) is working with the SAPS to develop an operational plan to respond to any xenophobic threats and attacks that may occur. A central provincial Joint Operations Centre is up and running and all law enforcement agencies are represented on it, officials said.Pretoria News