I am the founder of the Young Men Movement (YMM). This is a movement established in the beautiful small village of Pankop, in Mpumalanga. Basically, the main aim of the movement is to mentor and empower young boys to become men of integrity. I have a little brother, who - besides the undeniable negligence of the young boys in my community - was the reason why I had to start YMM. I feared he would fall into the same pit that had swallowed many of my teenage peers. I wanted to protect him from the unavoidable rebellion that comes with being a teenage boy. I wanted to equip him and his friends with tools that would help them navigate teenhood with a bit of ease and insight, given that I have been there before. So I created a platform that would give him new friends, a space that would be comfortable for him to express himself and hang around with like-minded people. And, Oh boy, was this achieved. YMM is a vehicle that drives change, captures the attention of young men and gives him and many other boys like him a haven. However, I just did not know how far a teenager could go in just being a teenager. Or how a boy will always be a boy, as I was told several times after what I call a mind-opening moment. At YMM we teach about morals, principles, good behaviour, self respect, respect for others, family values, importance of education, using our God-given talents and many other great building blocks. I have witnessed the goodness of all that the YMM team is doing. I have seen the positive impact of the team in the lives of these boys. That was until Saturday afternoon, while a session of YMM was in progress and my own little brother went against everything I have taught him and the principles of my life and that of the movement I created. This 17-year-old boy brought his girlfriend home. I am 26 years old and I have never, not once, even introduced my girlfriend to my family, let alone brought her to my house. It is taboo in our black culture. At least where I come from. And this was happening in full-view of all my "mentees" from YMM. As I watched him walk through the gate, with a girl who looked a year or two younger than him, I listened to him disguise her as his physical science "tutor". They walked into the house, his hand draped around her shoulder. The YMM boys and their mentors' eyes popped and jaws dropped, as they waited to see how I was going to react. And then he did it. My little brother loudly told the boys that whatever I am teaching them, does not apply to him. He went and violated everything I stand for and continuously teach. I often hear stories from parents narrating the behavioural tendencies of their teenage children. Some end up in hospital, some fall into depression, some even die from heart failure. It didn’t end there. He went straight to his bedroom, in broad daylight. The “tutoring” was not taking place in the study room or at least in the lounge or dinning area; it was behind a locked bedroom door. Indeed, familiarity breeds complacency. Because, the 15-year-old version of him would never have thought of pulling such a stunt in my presence. I was broken inside at the sight of what my little brother was doing. I felt helpless. I was speechless. I see him every day, but I haven't said a word to him about what happened on Saturday. I wanted to cut him out of YMM completely, but again, he is a teenager and, according to society, it is acceptable for a teenage boy to get up to mischief. There is also a Tswana proverb that goes, “ngwana phosa dira ga a bolawe”, which loosely translated means, the value of restorative justice to the reintegration of offenders. I remember he once said: “There is so much pressure in being your little brother. Because you are principled, you have morals and you do amazing work in the community, and people expect a lot from me by virtue of being your little brother.” This is sad because he feels trapped and somehow what I thought was a blessing for him, which is me being a good example, is turning out to be a curse. Perhaps this is a learning curve for all of us, as parents, uncles, big brothers, sisters and mentors. You could be a parent that is thinking of disowning your child after whatever they did to you that feels like betrayal. But, you have to know what matters the most. No matter how mad, embarrassed, humiliated and how much of a failure I feel, what matters the most is ensuring that he turns out to be a young man of integrity, brings a moral compass to his peers and a principled man in the future. Quentin Crisp was right when he said, “the young always have the same problem - how to rebel and conform at the same time. They have now solved this by defying their parents and copying one another”. We have to choose what matters most to us. But giving up on them is not an option. I choose to continue to guide, love and understand the complexities of being a teenager, no matter how hard it gets. Kabelo Chabalala is the founder of the Young Men Movement. E-mail: kabelo03chabalala@gmail.com, Twitter @KabeloJay, Facebook Kabelo Chabalala