Val Boje IN LYNNWOOD Road, south of the University of Pretoria s main campus, an ambitious project is on the rise. It is Javett-UP, a unique art centre for the city being developed as a joint venture between the Javett Foundation and the university. A model of the centre, lit up at night, drew plenty of attention at a dinner hosted by Professor Cheryl de la Rey, UP vice-chancellor, and attended by local leaders in academia, business and the arts.The design is by Pieter Mathews, with a gallery in a bridge that will straddle the road, linking the centre and the university and offering accessibility to local residents, visitors and the university community.De la Rey explained that an intersection , such as that which brought the university and the Javett Family Foundation together, was rare. From UP s side, for many years we had a vision about our future that is connected to our commitment to the arts. This includes acquiring art, and while most of the university collection has been donated, it also purchases works from its students each year. The university has museum collections - including the important Mapungubwe Collection - but as they are situated in the heart of the Hatfield campus, access to the public is limited. We wanted to ensure that our commitment to the arts continues to be underpinned by what defines us, that we are an academic institution, committed to education, said De la Rey. The Javett Foundation, with its commitment to education and passion for the arts, provided the perfect match for a joint venture, she said.The Javett-UP will house two permanent collections, the Javett collection and the university s, but will also host visiting exhibitions and really put Pretoria on the map as an art centre. Part of what we were unwavering about is that this should not be the traditional museum but a living space, a dynamic space, a space not only for the university but also for the community a space that will represent who we are in the present and in the future, De la Rey said.The director of Javett-UP, Christopher Till, described the construction as something amazing happening in Pretoria , with praise for Mathews and his team for the mesmerising design. He outlined the desire that Javett-UP would attract and embrace everything about the creativity of Africa in all its art forms, and bring something unique to the capital city. De la Rey, he said, had been an inspiration which was why Javett had crossed the Jukskei to invest in the centre in Pretoria . The timing was significant as a new generation of students emerged in South Africa. They are looking at themselves and their lives, he said. Having this art centre on a university campus, with all its academic disciplines and body of students offered new opportunities for creativity and study.The Javett Foundation has an extraordinary collection of modern South African art, and with visiting exhibitions from other institutions around the world, music, theatre and other forms of art, he saw Javett becoming a campus that would draw anyone interested in the art of Africa. The university would offer new directions in post-graduate studies in the arts and, through the Mellon Foundation, there would be a programme of residencies.The gallery is due to open towards the end of next year.