“In yet another example of a colossal waste of public funds, a total of R117228841 was spent on the HM Pitje Stadium in Mamelodi by the Department of Infrastructure Development. “This money could have been better spent on infrastructure development in Mamelodi,” Chabalala said. Of particular concern was that residents were still in the dark about issues relating to renovations of the stadium in Mamelodi West. “The stadium had not been used since 2005. “It remains non-compliant with safety and construction regulations and, as such, no occupational certificates have been issued by the City,” he said. Former mayor Kgosiento Ramokgopa and Premier David Makhura met with the people of Mamelodi to discuss the stadium, where they promised that work on rebuilding it would start in November last year. But, said Chabalala, no progress had been made since the meeting. Emergency and seating requirements were not up to basic standards, he said. The angle of the seating was dangerous and pitch visibility was obsolete in certain sections of the stands. Chabalala said that according to Infrastructure Development MEC Jacob Mamabolo, the original budget for upgrades at the stadium were about R60m. However, at the conclusion of the project, just more than R117m had been spent. “The most shocking revelation by the MEC is that there were zero consequences for shoddy workmanship by the contractors appointed. No contractor was blacklisted from doing business with the government, and no criminal charges have been pursued,” he said. Chabalala said Mamabolo had now placed this burden on the City of Tshwane. “This is another example of money spent with nothing to show for it,” he said. Chabalala said they would further pursue all avenues together with the DA-led administration of the City of Tshwane to ensure that those who benefited financially were held accountable. MMC for Sports, Recreation, Arts and Culture Ntsiki Mokhotho has emphasised before that more consultations were needed to bring the stadium back to life. “A thorough public participation process needs to be conducted because previously the public told the ANC-led city about their woes, and they did nothing. We need to engage with the people in order to fix the problem once and for all,” she said. Mokhotho said she had been in numerous talks with mayor Solly Msimanga to fix the stadium. “He (Msimanga) said this would be their focus for 2017. We really need to put this problem to bed because it's been long overdue,” she said. The delays have robbed Premier Soccer League side Mamelodi Sundowns of a home ground. At one stage, Sundowns considered buying the stadium from the City of Tshwane to return the club to its ancestral home and develop it to suit the club's needs.