However, we must not forget that the celebration of sports feats can also cloud our lens, blur our vision. When we look at sports feats we must also ask, who are we celebrating? South Africans, yes. But an honest appraisal and reflection will show how it’s the junior boys (of all colours) and senior men who are achieving most of the awesome titles and medals, with a few sportswomen and girls getting continental and global accolades. So where are the black sports girls? Why are they not also achieving world class sports feats? Why is it that black boys and male athletes are participating internationally in sport and achieving such amazing results yet our black girls and black women are not achieving world junior titles and world-class performances to the same level? Look at South Africa’s recent performance in the IAAF Under-18 Championships in Nairobi. The squad had more gold medals than any other country, while Kenya finished tops with 15 medals to SA’s 11, our best medal haul at a major global athletics meet. South Africa had four black male world champions and one white girl. If South Africa’s boys can be youth world champions, win global medals and produce world-class performances, then why are we not seeing more scintillating performances from black girls? Black girls do participate in sport; they are developing from grassroots to become provincial champions and national competitors. But it’s the platform to transition from national to international stages which is not proving supportive enough for them. National teams including athletics, swimming, hockey, badminton and netball do have black girls, but have far more white girls and boys. If the black girls can’t get selected for international representation, how are we going to have representative national senior teams? While we celebrate sports achievements, especially of boys, it’s very easy to forget about the missing black girls. In the moments of triumph, we forget to ask the critical questions that are impacting on black girls’ performances in international sport. And it is not that black girls can’t achieve internationally. Our world-class and world champion sportswomen such as Caster Semenya (athletics), Zanele Situ (para-athletics), Noni Tenge (boxing), Bongiwe Msomi and Phumla Maweni (netball) do exist. Black women can achieve global sports honours. South Africa’s sports administration is moving towards the selection of teams and athletes that will produce world-class feats and win those titles. With this selection policy being favoured, we must ask what support is being given to black girls to attain high continental and world ranking and deliver world-class performances? Where is the next generation coming from because, at this juncture, they are not surfacing from the junior ranks. While being thrilled about our sports boys' amazing international feats, we must also be concerned about the slow, almost lack of development of our black girls in sport at the international level. We must ask the critical questions about the missing black sports girls. National sports federations must be questioned and asked about the development and advancement of talented sports girls and sports boys, especially black  girls. How are they being protected and supported in the sports system, and why are they falling through the cracks? If we are neglecting them, we must respond, call sports bodies to attention, and force them to arrest this imbalance. We won't rest until black sports girls are visible on international sports stages with achievements and feats that match those of our sports boys. Roberts is a sports activist, promoting women’s sport in particular