What I found interesting about this comment was that, although life in the Congo was so horrific on account of the politics that he was forced to escape in search of sanctity, he had not lost his values. Is this a recent phenomenon among South Africans, or have we always been such a crude and rude nation? Recently, an SABC announcer who had his own music show lost his job on account of having made rude comments about President Jacob Zuma on Facebook. He apologised when Zuma’s son defended his father against such attacks. But the question arises: whose fault was it? To call the president a zombie is offensive, but he has been called even worse names in and outside Parliament. He has been depicted on paintings in the most outrageous light and brought before court on a litany of charges. He is largely impervious to the constant battery of insults. What incites us to be so unmannerly? Is it on account of our distressing lack of leadership by a once-proud political party? Have we started to dismantle our country because we perceive ourselves to be powerless? Are we mimicking the president and the ANC leadership by behaving the way we do? When the fish rots from the head, it slowly seeps downwards into the rest of its body. Indeed, rotten leadership produces bad governance, which in turn creates social dysfunction among the people. So when the president calls on all South Africans to heed Mandela Day with acts of welfare towards the poor, who will take him seriously? Instead, the people are starting to display a collective tendency to be destructive and inconsiderate of their fellow beings. They seem to care less about building a future and more about looting the coffers. Politicians are the prime example of dishonesty and self-
indulgence. Their distorted sense of loyalty to party and personality overrides truth and morality. Their bad example spreads and produces negative influences. Rampaging students burn down the very structures from which they seek educational succour. Health workers protest to the detriment of their patients, and teachers and civil servants care less for their vocations. Taxis and buses meander through the streets in flagrant disregard of traffic laws as they stop where they want to pick up passengers and drive recklessly through red lights. Pedestrians saunter across streets blissfully unaware of traffic lights. We are gradually making a mockery of adherence to rules, the modus operandi of a functioning society. “As long as I'm okay, Charlie, to hell with you.” Few of us examine our individual contributions to negative perceptions of ourselves as a group. We seem to be falling into a rut of alienating our fellow South Africans from each other through legislations, cultural misunderstandings, insensitive behaviour and discriminative practices. We hide behind cultural barriers that allow us to do whatever we please under the guise of “my culture” and “racial rights”. For as much goodwill as there is in this country, there is in equal measure ill will. The goodwill comes from exemplary citizens of all races who are salt-of-the-earth people swimming upstream to make an honest living in a country they love and wish to save from its horrendous past. But the bad-willed people are fast gathering momentum and, like rotten apples in a basket of healthy ones, they are rapidly spreading their rot. The tentacles of darkness have arisen from the very structures of the government where nepotism, racism, ethnic nationalism and other forms of deep-rooted racism abound. We are struggling as a nation to get rid of the rotten apples that have contaminated the leadership of the ANC. How do we save the mavericks who are brave and honest enough to fight for South Africa and not for an ailing and wounded party? If there is any award to be given it should go to the lone ANC MP, 
Dr Makhosi Khosa, for daring to speak out and challenge her obedient and loyal colleagues in Parliament. In asking her fellow MPs to vote with a conscience in the no-confidence motion against Zuma, she supported the introduction of a secret ballot. For this so-called “bad behaviour” she has allegedly received death threats and condemnation by the ANC Youth League, who claim that she has “an exaggerated” sense of self-importance and who is a “political unrehabilitated delinquent with a history of absconding when she does not get her way”. Isn’t it strange how perceptions of the same behaviour by the same 
individual may be viewed very differently, depending on what their sense of reality is? Human beings have a way of rationalising their actions to support their beliefs. History, however, will record the truth and in the pantheon of true stalwarts like Albert Luthuli, Nelson Mandela, Bram Fischer, Helen Suzman and more lately Thuli Madonsela, Khosa will surely feature proudly. Every society deserves to hear these voices of its moral conscience who may be defined as mavericks, fiercely independent thinkers who are principled beyond party loyalties, whose loyalties are directed towards truth and not power. In the process they may challenge the status quo and insist that the organisation or the institution works from a strong sense of integrity. The maverick is unafraid to question authority, buck trends or do the right thing. When Winnie Madikizela Mandela was asked by a young woman what the future of South Africa held, she replied: “Fighting apartheid was in many respects easier. We knew who our enemies were and they were in Pretoria. So we marched and toyi-toyed and were united against apartheid. Now our enemy is our very own compatriots who are corrupt and disinterested in the poor. We have come to realise that transformation isn't as easy as we thought it would be and this is why it is important for us to develop partnerships with the captains of industry.” She ends on a chilling note of warning to the ANC that if the party is not worthy of good governance, Mandela himself had said that the people should rise against it and hold it accountable in the same manner and vigour as we fought against the apartheid regime. Surely, it’s the people of South Africa who are greater than an organisation or its leaders in a defunct state. The challenge is for us to fight against our own self-destruction. If not, we all go down together. Rajab is a psychologist.