They joined thousands of other camouflaged soldiers in a massive military display as tanks and missile launchers rumbled past. Fighter jets streaked across the clear blue sky, shooting flares. President Xi Jinping reviewed the armed forces yesterday morning as part of celebrations marking the 90th anniversary of the foundation of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA), which falls on August 1. More than 12000 service personnel from the army, navy, air force, armed police, as well as a newly formed rocket force and strategic support troops, took part in the parade at Zhurihe military training base. China needs to build strong armed forces more than at any other time in history as the Chinese nation is closer than ever to the goal of great rejuvenation, Xi said after overseeing the parade. “The PLA has the confidence and capability to defeat all invading enemies and safeguard China’s national sovereignty, security and development interests,” said Xi, who is also general secretary of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee and chairman of the Central Military Commission. Xi, who was endorsed as the core of the CPC Central Committee in 2016, called on the PLA to stay loyal to the party, boost combat capability and continue to serve the people. Observers said the parade had more of a combat feel as soldiers appeared as if they were gripped by the heat of battle. “Here, the soldiers have the stares that kill,” said Wang Ruicheng, deputy head of the general office of the parade headquarters. Late leaders Mao Zedong and Deng Xiaoping also inspected troops in the field at key moments in history. But this was the first time Xi had overseen such a large parade at a military base, and the first time China has commemorated Army Day with a military parade since the founding of the People’s Republic of China in 1949. Yesterday’s commemoration began with a flag-raising ceremony around 9am. Xi was greeted by Han Weiguo, commander-in-chief of the parade and commander of the Central Theatre Command. “Comrade chairman, the troops are ready. Please review,” Han said. “Proceed!” Xi replied. Camouflage-clad Xi mounted an open-top jeep that drove along an airstrip. “Salute to you, comrades,” Xi called out to the soldiers. “Hail to you, chairman,” they replied. Xi alternated the greeting with “Comrades, thanks for your hard work.” The soldiers replied in unison: “Serve the people. Follow the party. Fight to win. Forge exemplary conduct.” Forty-one attack helicopters flew in formations spelling Chinese characters “Ba Yi” - or August 1 - and the number 90. Today, the PLA commands about 2 million service personnel, one of the world’s largest military forces. In his televised address, Xi said history had proved that the PLA was a heroic force that had followed the party’s command, serving the country with loyalty, and fighting for the rejuvenation of the Chinese nation. He urged the PLA to focus on war preparedness to forge an elite and powerful force that is always “ready for the fight, capable of combat and sure to win. “The world is not all at peace, and peace must be safeguarded,”  Xi said.