Six months into office, the Trump administration’s policy towards Africa has been left to drift, observers say. They cite vacant diplomatic posts and a lack of strategic thinking on multiple issues, including extremist threats in East and West Africa and civil war in South Sudan. It’s always been a struggle to get Washington’s attention on Africa, but “with this administration, I don’t get the sense that it’s even on the map. We’re looking at a blank page here,” said Richard Downie, acting director of the Africa programme at the Centre for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. A chief concern is that Secretary of State Rex Tillerson - who has yet to visit Africa - has not appointed an assistant secretary in charge of African affairs, the top post in charge of Africa policy. That had “stymied” State Department operations, said Steve McDonald, global fellow at the Wilson Centre in Washington. “Ongoing, day-to-day things don’t get decided on.” In addition, there is still no permanent Africa director at the National Security Council - the only region without one. This month the Trump administration delayed a decision on whether to lift sanctions on Sudan, prompting Sudan’s president to order that all negotiations with the US be frozen until mid-October. Other White House moves suggest Trump’s “America First” foreign policy is increasingly focused on security and counter-terrorism efforts in Africa, rather than the humanitarian and development agenda supported by previous administrations. Several African nations face threats from extremist groups like Boko Haram and the al Qaeda-linked al Shabab. At the same time, millions of people are at risk of starvation in Somalia, South Sudan and north-eastern Nigeria, and potentially violent elections are approaching in regional powers Kenya and Congo. While the US this month pledged nearly $640 million (R8.3 billion) in humanitarian assistance to alleviate hunger in South Sudan, Nigeria, Somalia and Yemen, critics said the aid had been approved months earlier by Congress but delayed by the Trump administration. Trump moved relatively quickly on security. In March, he approved a Pentagon proposal to “conduct lethal action” in Somalia against al Shabab. Less than a month later, Defence Secretary James Mattis visited Camp Lemonnier in Djibouti, the only permanent US military base in Africa. The White House’s 2018 proposed budget reflects the shift towards security and away from aid. It includes a $52bn increase on defence spending, made possible by proposed cuts to the State Department and the US Agency for International Development. The budget would reduce funding from $30m to $8m to carry out the closure of the US African Development Foundation (USADF), which supports local enterprises in 30 countries. It also would reduce funding by about $1bn to the US President’s Emergency Plan for Aids Relief which supports anti-retroviral therapy for over 11 million people, many in sub-Saharan Africa. The Trump administration also wants downsizing of UN peacekeeping missions, many operating in Africa’s most volatile areas. In June, the UN reduced its annual peacekeeping budget by more than half a billion dollars. Current and former US military leaders have warned that deep cuts to diplomacy and aid could jeopardise long-term US interests overseas, and some lawmakers have pledged not to pass the budget as it stands. “This budget, if fully implemented, would require us to retreat from the world diplomatically or put people at risk,” Senator Lindsey Graham told reporters in May. In Somalia, development programmes meant to counter the lure of extremism could disappear. USADF grants have reached nearly 6 000 direct beneficiaries there since 2012, said Abdinasir Ahmed Osman, project co-ordinator for the Somali Consultants Association, which monitors the work. In the capital, Mogadishu, USADF-funded programmes target youths between 18 and 35 - the same demographic that extremist recruiters go after, Osman said. “We are giving them skills. We are giving them opportunity,” he said. “They can compare which is better: being in battle, dying, without a future, or getting skills and working?” It was wrong to say that US diplomatic efforts in Africa were not moving forward, said Brian Neubert, director of the State Department’s Africa Regional Media Hub in Johannesburg. He said several development and trade initiatives such as Power Africa and the African Growth and Opportunity Act continued, and diplomats were going about their work. But South Africa remains without a US ambassador, after Patrick Gaspard left office in December last year. Since his departure, the deputy Chief of Mission at the US Embassy in Pretoria, Jesseye Lapenn has served as Chargé d’Affaires. Without a president visibly engaged in Africa, US diplomatic efforts could flounder, says Steven Feldstein, a former deputy assistant secretary of state in the Obama administration. “What you have is a policy vacuum when it comes to basic, critical issues in Africa,” said Feldstein. “Diplomacy will follow where the president signals his interest.” - AP