Cape Town – Lulaway on Wednesday offered to place 15% of the
approximately 800 people who will lose their jobs when Stuttafords closes its
doors at the end of this month. The entry level recruitment
company urges corporate South
  Africa to come forward with job offers for
the retail chain’s out-of-job staff. Lulaway Chief Executive Officer, Jakes Willis,
visited one of the Stuttafords stores over the weekend and wondering what would
happen to all the people who were about to lose their jobs. “I chatted to a few
well-trained, well-groomed and competent sounding employees in the store and
realised that something needed be done. If you consider the social multiplier
effect, where 12 people are affected when one person loses his or her job, then
about 9 000 people will be affected by the job losses at Stuttafords,” said Willis. Read also: Graduates are 'begging' for jobs Lulaway is about building
partnerships aimed at linking government funders, willing job seekers and
private sector employers in mutually beneficial synergies. Willis’ is willing to
challenge other companies in South
  Africa to consider doing so too. “We are aiming to place all
800 people, but can commit to 126 people for now. At Lulaway, we immediately
committed to employing 50 of these people. As we are a medium sized enterprise,
this is a significant commitment”. “While we do not have the
capacity to employ all 800, we do have strong relationships with clients in the
retail and services sector that always need experienced employees,” said
Willis. In addition to Lulaway
employing 50 people, its clients, Dischem and Bidvest Protea Coin, Mr Price
Group and PQ Clothing have committed to placing 76 people in total. Willis is
in discussion with several other clients to determine whether they can place additional
Stuttafords staff members. Willis said it was a tragedy
when competent and skilled people lose their jobs, especially given South Africa’s
current high unemployment rate and economic downturn. “I am aware the country is
in a recession, but there are jobs out there for people who have the necessary
skills, commitment and drive. Transformation is only possible when we come
together for the greater good of the individual and the economy,” said Willis. BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE