After failing to find a speedy resolution to their challenges following years of negotiations with a host of previous ministers of transport, the SA National Taxi Association (Santaco) vowed it would not entertain any further “delaying” tactics from the Department of Transport. At a joint media briefing by the department and the association in Hatfield yesterday, Santaco confirmed that the massive national strike by taxi operators scheduled for Wednesday was postponed while meetings continue. “During the meetings we will put pressure on stakeholders to commit to addressing our issues. But we will not carry on with meetings that are getting us nowhere or frustrating us,” warned Santaco deputy president Boy Zondi. “We have been dealing with the department for years now and decided that we can’t stay in boardrooms anymore discussing these issues,” Zondi said. “We have brought our takkies and will not hesitate to use them should there be no progress.” Transport Minister Joe Maswanganyi said the meetings with Santaco highlighted three integral issues to be resolved in the short and long term, the first relating to calls for the industry to be subsidised. Maswanganyi said considering that the sector accounted for transporting 68% of the daily commuting public, subsidy discussions were a matter of urgency. An operating licences administration backlog and access to reasonable finance agreements were among the issues raised. Acting Director-General Mathabatha Mokonyama said committees would be created to deal with problems which faced the taxi sector, and try to find solutions across the provinces. Mokonyama said the Taxi Recapitalisation Programme was another platform under review that would hopefully be presented to the cabinet before the end of the year. Maswanganyi said he supported ANC treasurer-general Zweli Mkize’s statements that the taxi industry be brought into the mainstream of radical socio-economic transformation. “The taxi industry is largely owned by blacks and we need to seek to bring equity to those formerly excluded so they can join the economy. Charging exorbitant rates will not help our aim,” he said. The department said it would enlist the assistance of other government departments, including the Treasury and its agencies, to explore possible funding mechanisms to be considered. Taxi operators were urged to work towards transforming the industry to become more modern and technologically savvy rather than resorting to attacking Uber drivers. “If we can transform the industry technologically and provide a safe mode of public transport it will become a choice for the young and the old,” said the minister. The taxi operators' previous strike saw operators blocking key transport routes causing widespread disruption across the city. Major routes affected by the strike included the N1 highway at the Allandale off-ramp in Midrand the N12 and the Soshanguve Highway. The strike disrupted emergency health services schools airport services traffic and many other economic activities. Taxi operators have warned that shopping malls and other stores and filling stations would be targeted by the industry in the next phase of its protest action. For more, see Business Report