In bringing out the intellectual aspect schools had to nurture this morally upright, agreeable individual who could coexist with others. In many countries, effective schools maintain that civic education should be buttressed to ensure that morally upright individuals are continuously nurtured. The enhancement of character education magnifies education’s role in schools and creates a difference between pupils who have been neglected and those nurtured through a meaningful education. The ruling on religion in schools should be welcomed. It empowers governing bodies to explore how a dominant religion can be selected in schools without marginalising other religions. Many public schools in South Africa, if not all, gave due importance to the instilling of Christianity in classrooms. And in most cases this was very effective. I remember as children how we used to hate Judas Iscariot, Abel and Goliath and hero-worshipped Samson, David, Daniel and Peter. Many of the heroes were presented as role models who set excellent examples for the young. As pupils we were taught ways of integrating how these heroes led their lives with the ideal way we were supposed to live. Much as we learnt less about female heroes in the Bible; women such as Esther, Deborah, Ruth and Abigail, religion was effectively used as the basis of teaching morality. This was also part of value education. And as part of hidden curriculum, religion taught pupils how to relate with others. Teachers also tended to reward good behaviour learnt. We all understood how we needed to care for others and various ways in which to follow the right values because the Christian religion reinforced many of these good values. Religious songs also extended this as we got to know about the bliss of after-life and the joy of an eternal life. This was also effective in helping school leaders run schools of people who knew the difference between right and wrong. Yet the other side of the hidden curriculum was the disregard of other religions for pupils were never made aware of the importance of other religious faiths. All they knew was that their religion was the beginning and the end and there was no other. The acknowledgement of traditional faiths is still taboo in many institutions, not only schools, even today. Maybe the focus on a single religion is necessary so as not to confuse the malleable minds. However, it appears that the young ones are even more confused to go out of school and hear others speaking about other religions and hearing the different names of the Supreme Being. Yet, the Johannesburg High Court ruling that promulgates that schools should not focus on one religion has a possibility of opening the minds of the pupils. It will enable them to realise that in the diversity of the country there are several people who believe in various religious faiths and this is crucial for harmonious living. The child from a Buddhist family should benefit from listening to a ceremony conducted in traditional African religion or any other. Religion has a way of bringing forth answers that have some finality and certainty.  The ruling passed by the High Court that pupils should learn other pedagogic and scientific views including evolution may also help them to learn about the various scientific positions. This can be done without disparaging any religion. All these are aspects that public schools have not been able to do over the years. This then means it should be incumbent on schools to move away from conservative positions where one religion was more important than others. If this does not happen religion will be entrenching values that are inimical to a diverse democratic society. In fact, we see this in how people tend to be negative to what they do not understand and what they think should not exist. Furthermore, the exposure to diverse religions in public schools will empower pupils and enable them to understand one another long after their schooling careers. People still undermine and classify one another by culture, race and sexual orientation. And religions seem to be huge practices that create schisms and misunderstandings. Effective schools will do the teaching of religion in a manner that will assert the goals of the constitution of the republic. Conscientious teachers and communities should also use religion in a way that places children in a better position to distinguish between right and wrong. This may be difficult for how does one tell a pupil to be a Christian but move away from Doom prophets who prey on the vulnerable searching for salvation. One does not forget a poor higher education student who recently gave all his bursary money, life’s collection to his pastor believing more luck would come his way. Pupils should not be taught to be gullible. Religion should make them critical leaders who promote the ideals of democracy, love and harmonious living. Religion should strengthen them to do their best to place their country among the finest in the world. There are many who say religion in the first place is dangerous for the young people because it promotes a blind compliance to dogma as it elevates patriarchy and authoritarianism. But even so, it is difficult to wish away any religion if we are to build a strong moral society based on certain values. We should however, always be wary of the trap of disregarding religion in societal institutions for any reason. There are many who believe in the power of the spiritual in our lives, be it traditional African religion or Shintoism. What should never eschew our minds is the fact that religious leaders were among those who fought for social justice during apartheid. There were many church leaders from mosques, churches, temples and Iinkolo zakwaNtu who courageously spoke against the dehumanisation of the majority by a minority through the policy of apartheid. This was a major role of these religious people who wanted to see social justice in South Africa. This is a history we should not retract from our children’s schools. In fact, the acknowledgement that all religions should be treated equally should also be an affirmation that all religious structures and their roles in society must not be demeaned. Professor Vuyisile Msila is a director at Unisa’s Change Management Unit. He writes in his personal capacity.