A recent attack on a woman who was jogging last Monday broke the 10-year crime free spell that the reserve has managed to uphold until now. The female trail runner was attacked inside the reserve at about 3pm. Her running shoes, cellphone, hydration backpack and sunglasses were taken. She was unharmed. The chairperson of the Friends of the Faerie Glen Nature Reserve, Louise Kritzinger, said the incident was upsetting because the reserve had not had a criminal incident for the past decade. “The last incidents were recorded around 2006 and 2007 when the reserve was not entirely fenced off,” she said. The reserve was fenced off over a period of about five years, starting in 2002, said Kritzinger. She said development on the northern side of the reserve, adjacent to Lynnwood Road, contributed to crime due to builders and job seekers in the area. People were squatting on the mountain. According to Kritzinger, after those developments were finished some people remained and still lived in the bushes, but they were removed from the reserve by mounted police patrols in 2006 and 2007. Kritzinger said although security around the reserve was fairly tight, some security features could be upgraded. The fence along January Masilela Road, Glenwood Road and Manitoba Road all needed maintenance. She said the fence was more than a decade old and was rusting, and it needed to be reinforced for effective protection. Reinforced welding and razor wire are some of the suggestions that were made by Kritzinger. She said that from the outside the palisade fence looked strong and intact because it was painted. “It is very important that the fence be maintained. We bought paint for the fence two years ago and we have bought more - R10000 worth of paint for the inside of the fence. We need sponsors to add extra security to the fence,” she said. This, she said, was where the perpetrators entered the nature reserve, they came in via Manitoba bridge. Not too far from the reserve is the Atterbury Bridge where Kritzinger highlighted that vagrants stayed illegally under the bridge. “We are going to suggest that the metro police remove the vagrants,” she said. It is also believed that the vagrants entered the reserve and homes which they burgled adjacent to the reserve on the eastern side. “We are taking this very seriously because there have been quite a high number of home burglaries in the past month around Faerie Glen,” said Kritzinger. Ward councillor Ernst Botha said the nature reserve had recently become a hot spot of criminality. “More recently we have had a very unfortunate attack on a runner in the reserve and numerous burglaries in the surrounding areas, especially where the reserve borders Ward 44,” he said. He said he and councillor Pieter van Heerden from Ward 46, adjacent to Ward 44, had been in discussions with various stakeholders to try to curb crime in the area. Botha said he also spoke to the Garsfontein police about the matter. “We have also taken it to the top structures within the city council, including the member of the mayoral committee for community safety and emergency services and chairperson of community safety,” said Botha. Since the rise in criminal activities the metro police have deployed their Equestrian Unit inside the nature reserve. A K9 unit will also be deployed to patrol at night.