Inspired by a 23-day, 405km school hike with 124 of his fellow pupils, Ashton has set up an ambitious crowdfunding campaign on Backabuddy to raise R125000 to feed 150 impoverished individuals for the next six months. “This trip was the first time in my life that I wasn’t able to open a fridge door when I wanted to. It made me realise how essential food is and got me thinking how terrible it must be to go without a meal for a day, let alone a few days,” he said. Ashton realised the importance of a good breakfast on this trip, and said his school’s “best kept secret”, the mysterious and marvellous “Breakfast pack” is what got the boys through their hike. Ashton has made it his mission to share the long-standing tradition of the “Breakfast Pack” with those who need it the most, the marginalised city dwellers who rely on feeding schemes, many of them no longer operating due to a lack of funds. Those schemes that have survived, like the St Albans College programme, are under tremendous pressure to feed more mouths with limited capacity. Ashton realised the drastic need for a fully functional, sustainable feeding scheme with enough resources to feed the masses. He set up his own campaign on BackaBuddy to crowdfund his cause and to create and distribute a “Breakfast Pack”, whose contents are unknown to the public, but are said to be nutritionally rich and easily prepared by adding water. These packs are loved and enjoyed by the students of St Albans College. Ashton has a very clear idea of what he wants to achieve and is no stranger to fundraising. At the age of 11 he raised R15000 to cover the medical costs of Mpheto Bidli, a student who was struck by lightning. In 2015, he raised an astounding R46072 to cover the costs of flights, accommodation, transport and meals for a cricket team to attend a tour at the Eersterust Cricket Club in Pretoria. With his current campaign he wants to motivate his school and his local community to be a part of his journey and to do their part, big or small, to change the lives of those less fortunate. “My passion for helping others is what drives these projects. "Although I am the one behind the project it takes more than me to help others, it takes a village,” said Ashton. “Crowdfunding provides individuals such as Ashton with an opportunity to pursue community projects they are passionate about through securing a number of small donations rather than relying on government and large organisations for support,” said Zane Groenewald, marketing officer at BackaBuddy. “Quite simply I’m a very lucky mom to have Ashton as a son.  Ashton always thinks of others and considers others. Not just when it comes to community work but in general everyone around him. He really cares, he is considerate and he wants to make a real difference,” said Brenda, Ashton’s mom. Asked where he sees himself in future, Ashton  was unsure, having only just chosen his Grade 10 subjects. He was, however, certain that whichever direction he went, he wanted to do his best to uplift and support those who need it the most. So far Ashton has raised R50525.95, and requests those willing to assist to go on to  Ashton’s Breakfast For A Buddy campaign on: https://www.backabuddy.co.za/champion/project/breakfast-for-a-buddy-campaign