On this day in 1997 our first democratically elected president, Nelson Mandela, appointed the first commissioners following public nominations and an interview process prescribed by the constitution of the Republic of South Africa and the Electoral Commission Act. Those commissioners were Justice Johann Kriegler, chairperson; Dr Brigalia Bam, vice-chairperson; and commissioners Thoko Mpumlwana, Professor Herbert Vilakazi and Fanie van der Merwe. A short while later the commission appointed Professor Mandla Mchunu as chief electoral officer to build the administration and lay the foundations of the organisation we know today. The task of creating a permanent, professional electoral management body was not an easy one. It was made more challenging by the looming national and provincial elections to be held less than two years down the line. In that short space of time, the Electoral Commission needed to build a national common voters roll from scratch, and put in place people, systems, processes and policies to deliver a free, fair and credible election in 1999. And just a year later it would be called on to conduct the first municipal elections. We know that today it takes us the best part of 18 months to two years to plan and deliver a general election. And that is with all the necessary systems, processes, experience, expertise and service providers already largely in place! Those who were here in the early days of 1997 and 1998 had no such legacies or short-cuts. But what they did have in abundance was a spirit of optimism and dedication manifested by their passion for electoral democracy; a deep-seated desire for South Africa and its fledgling democracy to grow and flourish; and an unshakeable commitment to the foundational values of the new constitution. Armed with these, the Electoral Commission pioneers laid the foundation for our institution which today continues to be respected and admired the world over. As the commission, it is worth reflecting on some of our accomplishments over this 20-year journey: We have delivered four successful national and provincial elections. We have delivered four successful municipal elections. We have delivered in the region of 1 000 successful by-elections. And as part of our good corporate citizenship we have also assisted in hundreds of elections for other institutions, including trade union movements, student representative councils, school governing bodies and many other NGO and corporate institutions. Along the way, we have continuously set new records and benchmarks for elections. The voters roll has grown by nearly 45% from 18.17 million to 26.33 million since 1999 and has consistently been around the 80% registration mark. Also, the number of voting stations has increased from about 14 650 stations in 1999 to over 22 600 last year. The number of political parties contesting elections has risen almost threefold from 79 in 2011 to 205 last year. The number of candidates has more than doubled from 30 081 in 2000 to over 63 000 candidates last year. Voter turnout has consistently remained among the best in the world for voluntary participation at above 70% in national and provincial elections and has grown from 48% in 2000 to over 58% last year. Our institution and the distinguished work of our professional election practitioners have been recognised beyond our borders through multiple international and domestic accolades and awards. Through our membership and participation at executive level on a number of international bodies we have also been privileged to share our experiences and learn from others. This has seen us and our staff members providing technical support and assistance to a wide number of elections on our continent and beyond and frequently participating in and leading observer missions. Some of the systems and processes that we have put in place to ensure transparency and credibility remain aspirational benchmarks for electoral management bodies around the world - these include 
our results centres as well as the party liaison committee system. The Electoral Commission is synonymous with the birth of a democratic and free South Africa and over the past 20 years we have earned the faith and trust of South Africans and the world through our hard work, professionalism and most importantly our unquestionable integrity. But we are only as good as our last election. If we are to continue to live up to the calling of our founders and to meet our vision of being a pre-eminent leader in electoral democracy we have to continue to earn the trust and faith of South Africa each and every day and in every election. This means ensuring we constantly strive to meet our strategic objectives including: Strengthening governance, institutional excellence, professionalism and enabling business processes at all levels of the organisation. Achieving pre-eminence in the area of managing elections and referenda, including strengthening of a co-operative relationship with political parties and other stakeholders. Strengthening electoral democracy through continuous outreach, education and engagement. Meeting this mandate requires a deep and faithful adherence to the values of our organisation: impartiality; integrity; accountability; transparency; participation; responsiveness; and, respect. It cannot be over-emphasised that our integrity as individuals and as an organisation is the single most important attribute we have. Our country is founded on democracy and it is not an overstatement to say that South Africa would not be the country it is today were it not for the Electoral Commission’s successful achievement of its mandate. This makes our institution undoubtedly a national treasure which belongs to all of us as South Africans. Along with other institutions supporting constitutional democracy, we are founded on the constitution as an independent institution; subject only to the constitution and the law; which must be impartial; and, must exercise our powers and perform our functions without fear, favour or prejudice. The success of our institution over the past 20 years has been our willingness and ability to adapt to our changing environment. We cannot merely cut-and-paste the work of the past. What worked 20 years ago - or even five years ago - may no longer work today or tomorrow. That is the nature of the evolution of institutions. The Electoral Commission must keep pace with this evolution by striving to rise to even higher standards of accountability, transparency, impartiality and integrity. We can take pride that the Electoral Commission has always been an institution rich in talent and which boasts a team of world-class, professional and highly experienced staff who serve our country with distinction. We have also enjoyed one of the lowest staff turnovers in South Africa which means we have been able to retain our talent, expertise and experience and to attract scarce skills. But as we move into the next 20 years of our journey, we must all embrace organisational renewal. We must make sure that as distinguished staff members who have been with us from the beginning reach retirement that we retain their knowledge and expertise. At the same time we must be open to fresh ideas and new talent by remaining an employer of choice able to attract the best and brightest to join us. Election management is a collaborative process and we should take this opportunity of our 20th anniversary to acknowledge and thank our strategic partners for the invaluable contribution they have made to the success of elections and our organisation. On behalf of the commission, we would like to express our deep gratitude and appreciation to political parties and their leaders and members; government departments and various state services at national, provincial and municipal levels; civil society and non-governmental organisations; faith-based organisations; academic institutions and foundations; gender, disability, youth and other interest groups; and, international organisations, including observer missions to our various elections, among others. Finally, we must thank the voters of South Africa for putting their faith in us for the past 20 years and for supporting us and making the elections a success. They are our ultimate stakeholders. The founders of our country and organisation have left us a great endowment - a vibrant democracy, an established institution, efficient electoral processes and systems, a pool of talented employees and a reputation for integrity, professionalism and excellence. When the next generation of South Africans meets to commemorate 40 years of democracy what will they say of the legacy we left them? Let us make sure that they look back with pride and respect at us and the inheritance we left them and South Africa. It’s up to us to fulfil the vision of those on whose shoulders we stand today. I know we will not let them down. Glenn Mashinini is chairperson of the Electoral Commission. This is an edited version of a speech he was due to present to staff today.