SACP general secretary Blade Nzimande has revealed that some of his comrades whom he worked with to remove Thabo Mbeki as ANC president in 2007 had one motive in mind - to loot the public purse. “We feel betrayed. Personally, I feel betrayed,” Nzimande said. “Our trust has been broken,” he added. Nzimande’s confession, which came almost 10 years later, detailed how the plot to oust  Mbeki was not entirely driven by genuine 
principles. In one of the blistering attacks on President Jacob Zuma, Nzimande said his co-plotters had originally agreed to remove Mbeki because he allegedly wanted to centralise the control of the ANC within his office and not within the ANC and its alliance partners. So betrayed is the party by Zuma that they wrote a letter to the ANC asking it not to deploy him to their congress under way in 
Boksburg. Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa was expected to address the congress today in what could raise the heat in the battle for the soul of the ANC in the run-up to its elective conference in December. Nzimande, former Cosatu boss Zwelinzima Vavi, and former ANC Youth League president Julius Malema, among others, were central in catapulting Zuma to the Union Buildings after the ANC’s chaotic Polokwane conference in 2007. Malema and Vavi have already apologised for their role in Zuma’s rise to power. Yesterday it was Nzimande’s turn to reflect on his part in helping Zuma to the country’s highest office and the party’s vociferous defence of the president until the fallout. The schism between Nzimande and Zuma had led to rumours on several occasions that the president would use a cabinet reshuffle to oust the communists from cabinet. Nzimande, delivering a political report, warned that the ANC would not receive over 50% of the national votes in 2019 if it didn’t get its house in order. Nzimande acknowledged that Zuma’s ascendancy was on the back of a marriage of convenience on the part of those who supported him with some wanting to loot the state. “However, in practice the Polokwane moment involved a marriage of convenience (or, perhaps, an unholy alliance) of the broad left” Nzimande said. He singled out the name Malema but stopped short of mentioning Zuma. Even prior to the Polokwane conference, this group with an alleged “aggressive parasitic, rent-seeking agenda” allegedly also composed a song claiming that Mbeki may have been linked to the death of SACP stalwart Chris Hani in April 1993 - a song which contributed to a split within the ranks of the ANC and the formation of Cope under Mbhazima Shilowa and Mosiuoa Lekota. Yesterday, Nzimande conceded that some of his co-plotters “identified patronage-based mobilisation within the ANC as the soft underbelly from which to capture strategic positions within the state to advance their parasitic agenda”. Mbeki, was however, also not spared. Nzimande said some of the major infrastructure vanity projects, which were essential interventions,  like the construction of the 2010 stadiums, Gauteng Freeway Infrastructure Programme, King Shaka International Airport and Dube Trade Port, as well as the Gautrain, didn’t bring much improvement to the lives of people in the country. Nzimande did not accuse Mbeki of any complicit act in those infrastructure projects but directly accused Zuma of acts of impropriety especially the alleged capture of State Owned Entities (SOEs) after he took over from Mbeki. “If opposition to Mbeki at the 2007 Polokwane Conference was centred on the struggle against over-centralisation within the Presidency, we are clearly now in a much worse situation. ‘Imperialist conspiracies’, ‘regime change’ threats are invoked in order to justify this dangerous drift - as if the accusers were not themselves involved in a ‘silent coup’ against a democratically elected government, and as if they were not actively betraying South Africa’s democratic national sovereignty,” Nzimande said. He said the first few years of Zuma in office looked promising, as the government increased its fight against HIV/Aids related illness. But things deteriorated after the Zuma administration allegedly pounced on state-owned companies such as Eskom and Transnet for their own benefit. “The massive over-spending at Zuma’s Nkandla homestead symbolised both the continuation as well as the personalisation of the vanity project phenomenon,” he said. Nzimande said the situation became worse in 2014 when state capture became prevalent in government, with the Gupta family and Zuma’s son fingered. SOEs have been captured not to privatise them - as was the case with Mbeki - “but to milk them and direct their billions of rand of procurement into private corporate and even individual pockets”, Nzimande argued. He said in an ordinary country allegations contained in the leaked Gupta e-mails should have already led to arrests. Government had to stop doing business with the Gupta and associated companies, Nzimande said, saying some of the money being made would be used at the ANC elective conference in December. “Some of the current parasitism is directed at building war-chests to subvert the ANC’s December 2017 national conference. The continued association with and defence of the Guptas, and the attempt to prolong the Cash Paymaster Services social grant contract are, in part, an aspect of the war-chest agenda,” he said. Zuma had used the  State Security Agency, Hawks and National Prosecuting Authority against Treasury and had deployed people in those offices to serve his own interests. ANC deputy secretary-general Jessie Duarte welcomed Nzimande’s political report and said it would help her party to find solutions to problems identified in the ANC.