He was speaking at The Amazing Christ Centred Church in Saulsville yesterday during the Ubuntu Initiative: Men Taking Responsibility event. He said the initiative was designed to begin a conversation, as most guys would rather talk with their guy friends about current events, sports, their job, their kids - in other words, just about anything other than the state of their health. “When they do open up with their pals, men are most comfortable describing close calls or sports injuries. But forget about them discussing any bedroom or bathroom problems with the fellas. Not going to happen,” he said. “Men need to start talking to each other. Using arts and theatre through song is powerful. The words and tunes sink into the mind and reignite the sense of humanness.” The Ubuntu Initiative falls under the umbrella of the SA National Aids Council and is a project run by the national Health Department in conjunction with several municipalities. Phumlani Ximiya of the Health Department said the objectives were to accelerate prevention in order to reduce HIV TB and STIs reduce illness and death by proving treatment care and adherence support for all and reach vulnerable populations with comprehensive customised and targeted interventions In some cases, especially in rural areas, the problem was ignorance, Ximiya said. “If you don’t know what a urologist is, you’re unlikely to make an appointment to see one. Education is key.” However, this was not to say that men were completely unconcerned about health. The problem was that many were not willing to be proactive, even when it came to seeking out and listening to the advice of close family and friends. “As men if we can stand up and begin to take care of fixing all the wrong things that are happening the world is going to be a better place,”said Maake Ka-Ncube. "All the social maladies happening are perpetrated by men. I have four boys and I want them to grow up in a healthy environment. Once you have healthy men mentally, spiritually physically that would resonate in our environment.” The call for government to seriously consider bringing back the death penalty for those who rape and kill women and children was made at the Ubuntu Initiative. The campaign, launched in June on the sidelines of SA Aids Conference in Durban, has already reached and engaged with more than 2000, providing free health services including TB screening, HIV testing, diabetes screening, medical male circumcision and blood pressure measurement. It supports South Africa’s National Strategic Plan on HIV, TB and STIs 2017 - 2022. A musical theatrical performance by Maake Ka-Ncube entertained the congregants and dispelled some myths and stigma that could be contributing to inappropriate behaviour by men.