Johannesburg
- At least 85 job opportunities have been created at Ramotshere Moiloa
 Local Municipality
by Boxer Superstore. Ramotshere Moiloa
was rated as one of the rural towns in the province and Boxer Superstore
decided to come and alleviate poverty by creating job opportunities for the
residents. The store was
officially opened by the Ramotshere Moiloa Mayor, Kereng Mothoagae who
indicated that it came as a blessing to the developing town of Zeerust. Mothoagae said
that she was optimistic that the opening of the store will also create a good
relationship between the store itself, the Municipality, businesses and other
entities. Mothoagae said
that the municipality was slowly realizing the philosophy of VTSD. “I had no
reason to refuse this offer from Boxer Super Market when they sold their dream
of opening a store in Zeerust. Boxer is one of the biggest stores in the
country and it was certain that the rate of unemployment was to be reduced”. “I am also happy
to witness that indeed people have secured jobs and they will be able to
maintain their various families. Ramotshere Moiloa is the economy hub that
links the SADC countries and as people pass through, they will leave something
in our town”,Mothoagae said. The store was
opened end of the youth month and it benefitted the youth of Ramotshere a lot
since 90% of those appointed were still young. Isaac Leseisane
who works at the butchery section of the newly opened store could not contain
his excitement and indicated that the supervisors are doing the excise of
transferring skills diligently. “They have
offered various training and also indicated that if we perform to the best of
our abilities, we can get the opportunity to be transferred to other big stores
around the country. I really appreciate this opportunity and I can finally
smile all the way to the bank come month end”, said Isaac. Mothoagae
congratulated and encouraged the youth to grab the opportunity of employment to
build their future so that they can become business-men of tomorrow. Read also: 50 000 jobs: Acsa unveils new growth plan “Your future is
in your hands. We always start small, so my advice to you is that start
building your dream today and tomorrow you might be a director of your own
store. I have nothing
more to say except that I am very happy for you and also extend my gratitude to
Boxer management. Let’s join hands together and fight unemployment and poverty,”
said Mothoagae. Chris Theron, who
is one of the managing directors said that Boxer Super Store is all over the
country and even at Swaziland with more than 30 000 employees and that they
support NGO‘s. To bear testimony to that, during the opening ceremony, at least
three NGO‘s were given R3 000 rand cheque each. They are Mamovic NPO,
Dithakwana A re rataneng and O Re Arabetse B Care Centre. BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE