The chamber will soon launch an urgent application asking the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, to interdict the minister from implementing the charter, pending review proceedings to set aside the charter. Deputy Judge President Aubrey Ledwaba still has to determine a date for the urgent court proceedings. The application for an urgent interdict was on the roll yesterday, but simply removed as the minister gave an undertaking not to implement the charter before the parties could be properly before court. Zwane had indicated he would oppose the urgent interdict, but had not yet had a chance to file his answering affidavit. The minister said the issues were complex and could not be rushed. Zwane released the mining charter in June, saying it would address the effects brought on by decades of colonialism and apartheid. The new charter, among others, will require mining companies to up black ownership levels by 4% to 30% within a year. Introducing the charter, the minister said a 14% shareholding had to go to black entrepreneurs as it was designed to encourage new black shareholding in mining and mineral ventures. In papers filed in the urgent application, Chamber of Mines senior executive Tabello Chabana said the matter was extremely urgent.  The harm caused by the charter was immense and ongoing, he said. R50billion of the value of shares of members of the Chamber of Mines was wiped out on publication of the 2017 Mining Charter, he said. “So long as the 2017 Mining Charter remains, the cost of borrowing money for the members of the applicant remains prohibitive.” The chamber and its members were fully committed to the transformational objects of the Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act (MPRDA), he said. However, they were opposed to “attempts to subvert those objectives by the unlawful publication of instruments which purport to give effect to such objectives, but in fact undermine them”, Chabana stated. The 2017 publication of the charter had and continued to have, a disastrous effect on the mining industry as a whole, he added. “The shock induced in all role players within the mining industry, including financial commentators, has been so profound that an amount in excess of R50bn  was wiped off the market value of shares in listing companies.” Chabana said rating agency Moody's characterised the 2017 charter as “credit negative”, implying that it may lead to a further cut in South Africa’s credit rating. “The 2017 charter has been met by universal disbelief and condemnation on the part of mining lawyers. “In short, it has been an unmitigated disaster, both for the mining industry as a whole and for South Africa,” he said. The charter was so confusing and contradictory in its core provisions that not only were the mining companies that were supposedly obliged to comply with it perplexed as to what they were supposed to do, but legal experts were unable to provide them with clear advice, he said. The minister was not at liberty to publish the charter, as this power resided exclusively with Parliament, Chabana argued. In an affidavit consisting of more than 80 pages he explained exactly what, and how, the charter was, according to the Chamber of Mines, flawed.