ZELDA VENTER [email&#160;protected] &nbsp;&nbsp; IN 2002 Stefan du Preez made headlines around the country when he allegedly stole an aircraft from Wonderboom Airport and landed it on the N4 Witbank highway in what was said to be a suicide attempt. Now his concerned sister turned to court in an attempt to prevent him from directly &nbsp;receiving his about R1.6-million inheritance from his deceased mother s estate. Deidre de Jongh of Pretoria East said in papers before the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, that her brother s share of his inheritance should be administered by a curator and that he should only receive a monthly allowance from his inheritance. De Jongh stated that her brother suffered from emotional and other problems and that he would simply squander his money if it was all at once given to him. The court meanwhile appointed a curator - a lawyer - to investigate Du Preez s situation and to present his case, on his behalf, to the court. His sister wants the court to declare him unable to manage his own affairs. Du Preez, will however, have a voice before the court by way of the curator, who will act in his best interests. Du Preez was 34 when he allegedly stole a Cessna from Wonderboom Airport. Charges were at the time dropped against him as there was a problem locating the witnesses who had to testify. De Jongh cited this incident in her court papers as one of the examples of her brother s irrational &nbsp;behaviour over the years. She said their now deceased father had to bail his son out of trouble on many occasions . De Jongh stated that he took the aircraft at the time to commit suicide, by crashing it somewhere. He eventually came to his senses and landed it and then deserted it. After the incident he was admitted to Vista Clinic for treatment for his mental problems. Du Preez, however, at the time felt there was nothing wrong with him and discharged himself. She said her brother from a young age had a dream to become an Air Force pilot, but he could not fulfill this dream due to problems in his life. His behaviour became more erratic and he from time to time &nbsp;squandered the money his father gave him to train as a flight engineer. He was also in and out of jobs and was prone to substance abuse, she said. Du Preez often landed on the streets and he also from time to time received support from a Church organisation. My brother s situation worsened due to his emotional instability and substance abuse, &nbsp;his sister said. After their father passed away she tried to shield her ailing mother from him and his emotional and financial problems. I do not believe it is exaggerated to expect my brother to be overwhelmed by his inheritance and I firmly believe that he does not have the mental capacity, temperament or insight to responsibly manage his finances and his estate, &nbsp;she said.