On another morning, in the same week, a newborn baby boy was found abandoned in Saulsville. He was lucky. He was still alive. After observation in hospital, Child Welfare Tshwane ensured that he was admitted to a place of safety. He will hopefully be adopted and will grow up in a loving home, where he will develop to his full potential. Despite the sad start to his life, he will be able to write a beautiful ending. It is so sad that a child, who did not ask to come into this world, is discarded and left on its own with little chance of surviving. Unless found in time. Each time the phone rings and Child Welfare Tshwane is informed of yet another abandoned baby or child, our hearts stop. But this is also our core business: to provide protection for the child. The increasing number of abandoned babies and children remains a growing concern, with many mothers unaware of their options, including adoption, 
or where to find reliable, non-judgemental counselling when faced with a crisis pregnancy. We often discuss why a young mother will abandon her child and the most obvious reasons are teenage or unplanned pregnancies. Often these young women hide the fact that they are pregnant and are too scared to take the baby home or tell someone about it. But there are also cases of poverty, where the young woman knows she 
will not be able to care for the child - either because she can barely survive herself or she cannot afford to feed one extra person. Other causes are drug and alcohol abuse, pregnancy resulting from a violent relationship, rape, incest or sexual exploitation. Absent fathers or paternity denial, HIV/Aids and urbanisation also move the young women to consider abandonment as solution. We need to get to the young woman before she takes the very extreme decision to abandon her baby. It is not an easy decision and often goes with a lot of emotion, depression and anxiety. We need to be able to support her and tell her of the alternatives available, of which adoption is only one. Her courageous and unselfish decision to give the baby up for adoption will ensure that the child will have a much better future. Our challenge is also to bring together the couples who are unable to conceive and who are longing for a child to complete their family and the young woman who is pregnant with an unplanned baby. Babies change people’s lives forever and where the unplanned baby brings stress and worry to the mother, it 
will add joy and happiness to a new adoptive family. Child Welfare Tshwane is pro-life and believes that each child deserves the chance to grow up in a loving family - we are looking for homes, parents for children and not the other way around. We are working in the communities with our Moses Project - where the mother (like with Moses in the Bible) places the child somewhere where he or she will be safe, brought up in a loving environment, and be “king” or “queen” in a new home. The project involves the community, where safe houses, clearly identified by a blue door, will provide a haven for women before they give birth. Here a trained care worker will give counselling and assistance with the process, should she then decide to give the baby up for adoption. However, we need partnerships from the community: the SAPS, clinics and hospitals in the area and companies willing to help us paint doors blue - the sign of hope in the community will be a blue door. If we can get to the newborn babies in time, we will be able to prevent the loss of so many innocent young lives. The only way we can prevent this from continuing to increase is to embark on intensive educational campaigns. We use family preservation programmes, girl programmes and holiday programmes to educate young girls and teenagers regarding sexuality and promote the use of condoms and other contraceptives. We can no longer ignore the fact that people are sexually active from a much younger age - without being able to understand and accept the responsibility of the result of their actions. In a world where people are fighting poverty, unemployment, homelessness and other social ills, making a perfect baby is still perhaps the one skill they can master. For this reason, many people will also see their sexual activity as an accomplishment and light in the darkness of their existence. There will always be unplanned pregnancies - we can only hope to reach the newborn baby in time so we can offer hope behind the blue door. *  Nina de Caires is from the adoption unit, Child Welfare Tshwane