As government, we are preparing our children in four critical areas, namely the 4-Cs: collaboration and teamwork; creativity and imagination; critical thinking; and communication. The consortium of Unicef, the Lego Foundation, and Cotlands, in partnership with the Department of Basic Education, has begun to develop an online training programme aimed at in-service training to 150000 Early Childhood Development (ECD) practitioners, Grade R and Foundation Phase educators across South Africa. The PLAY-based learning - Powerful Learning Around You - will be delivered over the next two years. PLAY is an in-service training programme course that complements existing and formal training. The demands of the 21st-century educational landscape require of us to think and act differently. If we are to succeed and help our learners to acquire both the aptitude and attitude of the Fourth Industrial Revolution (4IR), impacted by new technologies, policy makers and influencers are the first people who need to change. The 21st century demands of us to be the pioneers of radical, pedagogical revolution as we embrace new technologies and tactics that will fundamentally redefine the meaning of teaching and learning. We need to discard the pedagogy of the 20th century, which was largely influenced by methodologies of rote learning: the Triple T approach of Test, Teach, Test as the alpha and omega of learning. The dominant narrative today is what Ivor Goodson, Professor of Learning Theory at the University of Brighton, and Scherto Gill, a Research Fellow at the University of Sussex, (both in the UK), called “Critical Narrative as Pedagogy”. Given the tumult in South African education today, this critical narrative is an antidote to rote learning and teach-test-teach. We are being asked to teach our teachers new teaching skills and let learners do what comes naturally to them, and that is what PLAY does. Learners are taught to play to learn, in order to create something that is fun and educational at the same time. The future beckons, and that future is digital - the fusion of technologies that blurs the lines within the physical, digital, and biological spheres. Play plays a role in the cognitive development of the child. Our challenge is to help teachers to navigate what for many of them is an uncharted territory of rapid, non-linear changes in pedagogics. This conference occurs at the time when South Africa marks the centenary of the birth of OR Tambo, a leader of the ANC for close to three decades during the darkest period of the anti-apartheid struggle. Tambo was a herder boy who became a giant; a man with a vision for a better tomorrow; an exemplar of leadership and service to others. Not only did he struggle against the injustices of his time, but he established the foundation for a democratic future. In 1987 (in Harare), Tambo addressed an international conference on children, repression and the law in apartheid South Africa. He said: “We cannot be true liberators unless the liberation we will achieve guarantees all children the rights to life, health, happiness and free development, respecting the individuality, inclinations and capabilities of each child. “Our liberation would be untrue to itself if it did not, among its first tasks, attend to the welfare of the millions of children whose lives have been stunted and turned into a terrible misery by the violence of the apartheid system.” The objectives of this PLAY Conference are: Ensuring that the importance of play shapes a national commitment that will drive play as an essential part of children’s learning, development and well-being in the national policy discourse and development and programme implementation; Reflecting on the adequacy of national policies and programmes against national and international evidence to prepare children for the opportunities of the 21st century; Facilitating a critical dialogue between science, policy and practice on advancing children’s learning and preparedness for new opportunities; and Supporting policy-makers, through evidence, to define their role and space in promoting PLAY-based learning. As government, we are taking a lead in ensuring that there is universal coverage with regard to the Early Childhood Development sector. We have the appropriate policies and strategies and through a national integrated policy plan for early childhood development which links the policy implementation to commitments set out in the Medium-Term Strategic Framework, as well as the National Development Plan. The 5th ANC National Policy Conference has recommended that ECD, as a line function, should be moved from the Department of Social Development to the Department of Basic Education. This is in line with the earlier resolution to reinvigorate the whole Basic Education sector to reposition it as a leader in addressing the triple challenges facing the country. Basic Education is recognised worldwide as an integral part in unlocking long-term economic growth and progress. Within the National Integrated Policy and the Plan, the DBE has two main responsibilities, namely: Curriculum Development: The National Curriculum Framework for children from birth to 4 was developed in 2014; and Human Resource Development: in-service training of practitioners training towards the ECD National Qualifications Framework (NQF), Level 4, as part of the Expanded Public Works Programmes (EPWP). The DBE equips children by offering the South African National Curriculum Framework for Children from birth to 4, and the National Curriculum Statement from grades R-12 that give expression to the knowledge, skills and values, worth learning in South African schools. This curriculum aims to ensure that children acquire and apply knowledge and skills in ways that are meaningful to their own lives. In this regard, the curriculum promotes knowledge in local contexts, while being sensitive to global imperatives. The implementation of the National Curriculum Framework in ECD centres, requires play to be the main method used for teaching and learning. Play is fun, and young children learn through play. The implementation of the NCF encourages practitioners in all ECD settings to expose children to well-structured play. One of the key challenges being identified in the implementation of quality early learning programmes for children from birth to 9 years, is the lack of consistent implementation of PLAY-based learning approaches in the early learning and development programmes and the Foundation Phase. The challenges we are facing include, but are not limited to: Poorly qualified practitioners in most community-based centres; unavailability of the budget to train practitioners; inadequate support at District level; inadequate resources/facilities at most community-based centres in the provinces; and poor inter-departmental collaboration. Play is essential to lay a solid foundation for learning, on which subsequent levels of learning are built. The right to play is inherent to the learning, development and well-being of all children, including children with disabilities. Edited from a keynote address by the Minister of Basic Education at the United Nations Children's Fund. The Department of Basic Education, the Lego Foundation and Cotlands hosted the 2017 PLAY Conference in Pretoria from July 11 to 13.