Ronnie, as he was fondly known by a number of public servants, especially within the government communications sector, passed away after having suffered a stroke a month ago. He was a brilliant communicator who was the darling of many media professionals. He was known and highly valued for his insights into media management. To us in the government and the ANC, Ronnie was a brother, a comrade, a colleague and a counsellor. I’m one of those who can say proudly that I benefited a great deal from his expertise. I started working with him in 1993 in the Department of Information and Publicity of the ANC. The department was at the forefront of managing the country's transition following the unbanning of political parties. Among the people we worked with 
were Gill Marcus, Pallo Jordan and Joel Netshitenzhe. There was huge interest in the negotiations taking place as those would pave the way for the first democratic elections the following year. There was a lot to be done, with little experience on our side. Ronnie was given the task of managing the media - a role he was to excel in and where he was to carve a niche for himself. His humility and dedication came to the fore and helped us many a time to navigate challenging circumstances. He worked full time in ensuring the media was updated at all times on the ANC’s perspective during the transitional negotiations. His typical day at the ANC head office, then known as Shell House, began with checking all the newspapers to see what had been said about the party. Next, Ronnie would be on the phone calling a journalist or two who had written something about the ANC. The calls were either to commend the work they had done or correct errors that might have been reported. He did this with respect and great sensitivity. He had a wonderful and collegial relationship with journalists. I recall one of the impromptu media briefings he called when he felt strongly about the ANC being misrepresented. In one of those, Ronnie arrived more than an hour late. I was beside myself with anxiety, concerned that his late arrival would exacerbate the problem. By the time he got there, a number of journalists had left. Ronnie started with a long story explaining what had delayed him and apologising profusely before getting to the purpose of the meeting. After the briefing, he asked me to give him the names of the journalists who had left. He called each of them to apologise and gave them individual telephonic briefings. I was concerned that his almost two-hour delay would have an adverse effect on the coverage. I worried for nothing. There wasn't a single media house that mentioned Ronnie’s delay. The coverage was great thanks to his amicable relationship with the media. After the 1994 elections, Ronnie took me with him to work for the Gauteng Premier’s Office. In his typical good-natured style, he said: “Tomorrow we start work at the Premier’s Office and we will deal with the rest when we get in.” He was a real character; he wanted to be everywhere during the transitional period. Initially, I must admit, I was confused about whether he was working for the provincial legislature, the ANC provincial office or the Premier’s Office. He was everywhere. I asked him once where exactly he was working. His response: “I work everywhere so as to take the work of the ANC forward.” Predictably, it took him a while to transition from being an activist to being a public servant. He never liked bureaucracy. His preoccupation was to provide a service without being bogged down by bureaucracy. He was never the stereotypical 8am to 4pm kind of employee. He was extremely dedicated to his work and worked tirelessly to improve the lives of South Africans in whatever capacity he found himself. I'm certain those who interacted with Ronnie would agree that his conversations were mostly about government work. He thrived on sharing stories about being an activist in the 1980s, being a political prisoner or just generally explaining government policies. I have fond memories of working with him at national government level. When Madiba passed away in 2013, Ronnie promptly arrived at the GCIS offices in Hatfield just after midnight. I asked him how he knew we would be at the office. His response: “I knew that somebody must be up and working on the media accreditations and therefore came to offer my assistance.” He was working at Home Affairs at the time but asked to be deployed to GCIS where he became part of the media relations team - which included communicators from other departments. Throughout the 10 days that followed, he immersed himself in engaging with the media about the funeral preparations and, as usual, brought great insight and was a pleasure to work with during that difficult time. If there was one person who knew exactly what the motto Batho Pele ("People First") meant, it was Ronnie. He served the media with distinction and also served the country with dedication. He raised the level of communications work within the public service. As we bow our heads to honour him, let us all retain some of the wisdom that made Ronnie Mamoepa such a distinguished public servant Communications Minister Ayanda Dlodlo is leading a memorial service of government communicators and mem-
bers of the media this morning to honour Mamoepa. Phumla Williams is the Acting Director General of the GCIS.