That is none other than the Pretoria Zoo flea market which stands at the entrance of the city from the north side. The market is next to the entrance of the National Zoological Gardens on Paul Kruger Street and it is the sign for many travelling from townships such Mabopane, Soshanguve, Hammanskraal and Ga-Rankuwa that they have arrived in the city centre. The market offers dresses, straw mats, beaded necklaces, uniquely crafted cutlery, traditional hats, shoes, herbs, paintings - an endless list of curios. Traditional artifacts from African cultures can be found at this market, some of them coming from Swaziland and Botswana, and items range in price, with shoppers being urged to spend anything from R5 to R500 for anything, including intricate beaded masterpieces. Almost everything at the flea market is hand-made, and shoppers can request that items be custom made for them, and in some cases, pieces can be made “while you wait”. Sophie Masemola from New Eersterus, Hammanskraal, recalled how she first came to the market with her grandmother in 1961. Her grandmother held a stall there and the young girl was enthralled by what could be achieved. Masemola said she followed in her grandmother’s steps and started creating her own pieces to sell when she turned 12 years old in 1976. She said: “There wasn’t much to do back then so my grandmother started teaching us how to create single-beaded necklaces. When she saw that we were genuinely interested she would then teach us how to create more difficult pieces,” she said. Masemola said that when she started selling from that spot there was no proper infrastructure for the vendors and they would often get caught in the rain, heat and other elements. “It was a difficult time for us because if we weren’t battling the weather then we would get harassed by the police,” she said. Despite the challenges she said her family chose to continue selling at the market rather than resort to domestic work in white people’s homes. “We used to sell each beaded necklace for 20 cents, and if you managed to make at least R20 you were sorted for the rest of the day because that was a lot of money back then,” she added. She said that thankfully, things had improved, as they could now sell their pieces for a greater profit. “This place, as quiet as it seems, helped my grandmother raise our entire family on whatever money she made from selling her goods.” Masemola said there had been a shift in the customer profile and more black people had started taking an interest in their goods and often bought them in bulk to resell. Josephina Mabena said she started working at the market in 1980 when she was just 18. “I came here because my mother wanted to keep us out of trouble and to teach us a skill we could use for the rest of our lives. “It’s a pity not many tourists visit this side of the city. We take great pride in the things we make,” Mabena said. “We’re always here and only take time off when we need to visit family or during an emergency.” The market is open Monday to Sunday from as early as 7am.