Mashau was sitting inside the car outside Loftus Versfeld when he was attacked, with a petrol bomb thrown at his car on the weekend of June 10. His car burst into flames with him inside, leaving him with serious injuries. He was rushed to the intensive care unit of a local hospital and was reportedly responding well to treatment, but he succumbed to his injuries yesterday morning. Moments after reports of his death were made public, almost 100 Uber cab operators gathered at the scene of the incident, where they burnt candles and held a sombre memorial for their colleague. They refused to talk to the media, telling a team from the Pretoria News that it was a private gathering and strangers weren’t welcome. Chasing the team away after briefly pausing from their activities, one said: “We don’t want any unfamiliar faces here thank you.” One offered to escort the team from the scene of the memorial. Mashau’s death comes as the feud between metered taxis and Uber continues over the legality of the app-based service from having vehicles positioned across the city and province to transport passengers. The fight between the traditional metered cab service providers and the new, hailing system, including Uber and the Tuk Tuks, has escalated in the past year and been marred by violence. Uber vehicles have been damaged; their windscreens broken, some burnt and, in other incidents, car keys snatched from the ignition while drivers waited with passengers for access to and from destinations. Metered taxi operators have complained of the new systems encroaching on their business space, saying the app service had not applied for the required licence to operate 
vehicles. Uber, however, has vehicles stationed at strategic points, including Gautrain stations, where they compete for customers with other cab services, while also relying on calls from the app system, therefore upsetting the metered taxi operators who claim they cannot have it both ways. Announcing Mashau’s death yesterday, Uber spokesperson Samantha Allenberg said they had partnered with multiple security response services that were able to dispatch security and medical services in emergency situations in a reduced time in an effort to improve the safety of the driver-partners who used the Uber app. “We have hired additional security response teams to help prevent  these terrible crimes which we condemn,” she said. In Uber’s initial investigation last month, it found that Mashau was attacked by a small group of unknown individuals, leading to him sustaining serious injuries which landed him in hospital in a critical condition. Uber requested an urgent meeting with the police and transport ministers to resolve this situation and yesterday said they were still waiting for responses. “Using violence and intimidation to limit consumer choice is unacceptable. The security response teams that we have hired will continue to provide additional security support around the stations,” she said. “We are doing everything we can but Uber is not a security company so we need the help of law enforcement to resolve these issues as soon as possible,” she said. The dispute involving Uber initially started four years ago, when the meter taxi council said Uber drivers operated without permits. They wanted them off their routes, calling Uber a charter service which dealt with organised transport. The Transport Department later announced it was going to operate the same as metered taxis, but no consultation was done with “relevant structures”, including the meter taxi association. The #UberMustFall movement was launched last year and it saw bloodshed, violence and chaos meted out against Uber drivers at Gautrain stations, including Centurion. Since then, the war had escalated from fist fights, windscreens being broken and damaging car tyres to gun shots and vehicles being burnt. Two weeks ago, a Toyota and another vehicle were found burnt in Sunnyside. Police found one vehicle was burnt at the corner Jeff Masemola and Van der Walt streets, while another was set alight at the corner of Jeff Masemola and Thabo Sehume streets. Three men were arrested. Secretary of the Gauteng Meter Taxi Council Hendrick Ndou said the dispute between the two industries wasn’t something to be proud of. He said both parties were being attacked and he was not in a position to point out if it was Uber drivers who attacked them or vice versa. He said all they needed as metered taxi drivers was to sit down with Uber and understand each other’s way of operating. He said the entire situation had to do with fair competition and operating legally.