Cape Town- The Presidency announced on Monday that President Jacob Zuma had appointed a new Chairperson and Deputy Chairperson of the Financial and Fiscal Commission (FFC). In a statement, the Presidency said Zuma had appointed Professor Daniel Plaatjies as Chairperson and Dr Sibongile Muthwa as Deputy Chairperson of the FFC in terms of section 221(1) (a) of the Constitution and section 8 of the Financial and Fiscal Commission Act, 1997. According to the Presidency, Professor Plaatjies has served in various senior positions in national and provincial governments and had been a part- time commissioner of the FFC since September  2013. He has also served as a Deputy Director-General of Strategy and Business Development at the South African Social Security Agency and is a former Director: Public Finances at the National Treasury.
 He is also a former Head and Director of the Wits School of Governance and is currently a visiting Professor at the University of Free State's School of Business Administration.
 
Dr Muthwa is the Deputy Vice-Chancellor: Institutional Support at the Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University, and has also served as Director-General of the Eastern Cape Provincial Government and in various positions at local   institutions of higher learning. She has been a part-time Commissioner of the FFC since July 2014.
 "Their institutional memory and expertise as well as their experience as serving members of the FFC will add enormous value to the Commission," the statement added. Read also: New bill to correct FFC anomalies The Commission's primary objective is to make recommendations to Parliament, the provincial legislatures, local government and other organs of state on financial and fiscal matters as envisaged in the Constitution and other national legislation. The chairperson serves full-time while the deputy chairperson position is part-time. Zuma congratulated Professor Plaatjies and Dr Muthwa and wished them all the best in their new responsibilities. AFRICAN NEWS AGENCY