The disgruntled ousted security officers met at Princess Park in Pretoria West to get feedback from EFF leaders regarding their options. The guards are upset by the city’s announcement to replace them with new Metro Police recruits. The EFF earlier met executive mayor Solly Msimanga regarding their possible reinstatement. The plan to hold peaceful talks fell apart when the guards went on the rampage and police fired rubber bullets. The group claim they had been promised their contracts would be renewed and they could return to work as soon as the EFF leaders met Msimanga. They were disappointed, however, when EFF chairperson Benjamin Disoloane told them they needed to apply for security positions as soon as the municipality advertised the posts. “We are not applying for anything, why do we need to apply when we already worked there?” they shouted. Things turned sour when the group decided they would force all security guards employed in the city to join the strike. They walked down WF Nkomo Street and demanded  that security guards on duty at the Tshwane bus depot  join them. They turned away motorists and blocked the road with chairs, sticks and anything they could find. But when the group forcefully turned motorists away and closed the road, police fired rubber bullets. This led to protesters running in different directions,  while some fell into water drains next to the road. Security guard Lemon Chabalala was one of many hit by rubber bullets. He was hit on the neck and stomach. “Why are you shooting me? I am not fighting, I am not even armed so why are you shooting at me?” he asked police officers. However, Chabalala was among those arrested. Police spokesperson Sergeant Tsietsi Lamola confirmed that 23  former Tshwane municipal security officers were arrested for public violence by members of the Public Order Policing Unit and would appear in court soon. The shooting did not deter the group from gathering again at the park, where they had agreed to meet again today to discuss a way forward. But the police gave those gathered 20 minutes to clear the area. The ruckus comes after the city announced that the metro police department intended to use some of the 1924 new recruits currently on probation to provide security work. Msimanga told the media last week they could not afford to absorb every worker. “Our precarious financial position is well known and R200million a year is unsustainable for the city when there are more affordable options at our disposal.”