Pretoria - High-ranking officials and diplomats in both South Africa and the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) are now exempted from obtaining visas before travelling between the two countries. The new arrangement took effect yesterday following the signing of visa waiver agreement by the Home Affairs minister Prof Hlengiwe Mkhize and the DRC deputy Prime Minister Emmanuel Ramazani Shadari in Pretoria. The two ministers hailed the agreement as it is going to ease free movement by officials and diplomats saddled with undertaking government-related trips. Mkhize said the agreement was just a starting-point likely to be extended to ordinary passports holders in future. "We are moving into a new terrain which we have not walked before to begin to move towards the integration of the continent," she said. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Asked why the agreement was restricted to only government officials, Mkhize said: "We have been issuing long-term visas to business-people and academics. They already have their own package. They engage and they move freely." She said the pact was informed by the Southern African Development Countries vision to enhance integration between countries and encourage people-to-people relationships. The agreement also tied in with the African Union agenda 2063 that talks about the integration of the Pan African countries, Mkhize said. She said the agreement was a way of maintaining good diplomatic and political relations between the two countries. Shadari said the exemption offered lots of advantages such as the facilitation of easy movements between the two countries. "It will enable officials between the two countries to travel freely," he said. He said the free movement would help to facilitate the implementation of the already signed agreements between the two countries. South Africa and the DRC has at least 24 agreements previously signed to foster good relations. Shadari stressed that the agreement would be enforced within the context of the law of the two countries. "The agreement also empowers one country to deny entry to a person it deems undesirable," he said. He said consultation regarding the visa waiver agreement started in 2013.  rapula.moatshe@inl.co.za  Pretoria News