They spoke truth to power. The cumulative effect of thousands of freedom marchers was a new awareness of the evils of racism and white monopoly capital. While Dr M Luther King, the Black Panthers and a host of militant groups, black and white, may not have achieved their ideal goals, America was never going to be the same again. Fast forward to the height of apartheid dictatorship from 1960 to 1990. The oppressed masses in South Africa decided enough was enough. While the armed wings of the liberation movements and political leaders on Robben Island made a significant contribution to the fight against apartheid, it was ultimately the uprising of millions of patriots who dealt the coup de grace to apartheid. They operated under the tag “rolling mass action”. The majority were black because they were the most oppressed. They were supported by a small but significant number of white people, mostly liberals, intellectuals, students, white left, religious leaders and a sprinkling of radical loonies. The year 2017 may well be described as the beginning of our own Arab Spring, with a difference. The revolutionary rebellion in the Arab countries was against naked fascism and dictatorship. In contrast, we have a constitution that is described as the most progressive in the world. The rallying point for our militants is that we must defend the constitution at all costs. The marches which have taken place so far have common objectives. They are racially mixed and involve the young, middle-aged, educated, workers, intellectuals, business leaders and angry young people. People are sickened by rampant corruption, poverty, unemployment, degeneration of our country to junk status, public scandals and looting of state resources. Unless a resolution is found soon, there are ominous signs the situation will get worse before it improves. The constitutional mechanism to force President Jacob Zuma to vacate his office is to dissolve Parliament and call for new elections. The second alternative is for the ANC to recall Zuma from the positions of state president as well as president of the ANC. To succeed, both options would require the support of or condonation by the leadership of the ANC, either en bloc or at least enough individual members of the NEC and ANC parliamentary caucus. Granted, there are still honest and dedicated ANC members most are swayed by the politics of the stomach. It would take a highly principled leader to face his wife and children to declare his intention to resign from Parliament in which he can no longer serve with a clean conscience. Their response is predictable: “Ntate, are you crazy, or have you been misled by those holier than thou, pastors and Veterans? What will the people say? They will laugh at us. How about this house, the vehicles, your social status, our comfort and your power? Don’t listen to the anti-Zuma crackpots." The pressure from the wife and other family members may be too much. At least you can count on Naledi Pandor, Lindiwe Sisulu, Makhosi Khoza, some members of the SA Communist Party, Pravin Gordhan, Jackson Mthembu, Mcebisi Jonas, Thabang Makwetla and others like them. Some fear that without a political position their future is bleak. Imagine newly appointed ministers and deputies abandoning the honey they have hardly tasted! Place yourself in the shoes of tenderpreneurs who might be uncertain about the security of their loot! These are mercenaries who will jump ship at the first sign when Zuma goes down. They will swear they never supported him or they only strategically stayed on to “correct” the situation from inside. Sounds familiar? Bantustan leaders and collaborators with apartheid swore they only remained in the system to bring about democracy! All things said and done, only a highly conscientised and organised civil society will change the status quo. Their chances of winning are good because they have the numbers, the time and a very good reason for changing the situation. The above observations are directly linked to the next ANC elective conference in December. Whether or not Msholozi stays on until December, the question on everyone's lips is who will take over the reins? My take is that whoever emerges the victor must have the qualities spelled out in the ANC’s “Eye of the Needle”: Someone who brings no baggage, especially factionalism, dynasty syndrome, criminal record, tenderpreneurship, cronyism or corruption. Demonstrable history of courage, discipline and independence of mind. Financial independence, although not necessarily wealthy. Track record of activism and leadership in the MDM formations, UDF and liberation movements. Acceptable education with a minimum junior degree or postgraduate qualification. Understanding of how government and politics work. A team player and patriotic. Given the mess that South Africa is in right now, we need a radical leader. This means someone who will restore order, respect the constitution, regain the moral authority of the presidency, be tough on corruption and maladministration, turn around the junk status and rebuild the economy, regain the standing of South Africa in the AU and the broader international community, narrow the Gini-coefficient, give non-racialism a fighting chance and above all prioritise high-quality education for all. Last, but not least, the new president must implement the revolutionary policy that was announced by Zuma in his last State of the Nation Address in February - a radical socio-economic transformation. This assumes that such a policy can only be implemented by a leadership that has probity, integrity, ethical skills as well as a commitment to the common good of all. There is, therefore, a direct correlation between the phenomenal upsurge of anti-establishment and a demand for an ethical leadership which will restore the confidence of the majority of our people in the system. Thousands and thousands of people in all the provinces and across political affiliations, labour, professional, class affiliation and religious affiliation cannot be wrong when they shout “Enough is enough. We demand change now!” There is so much at stake that people can no longer tolerate pretenders to the Presidency who are pussyfooting. Those days are over. Don't expect people, not even your ardent followers, to take the bullet for you unless you can demonstrate a willingness to do likewise. Father Mkhatshwa is the chairperson from the Moral Regeneration Movement