Tensions and subsequent confrontations ensued between the two communities following an electricity outage which was caused by illegal connections by the unlawful occupiers of land. People’s assets and valuables were destroyed in the process, a mini-substation and houses and shacks were torched with petrol bombs from both sides. This is not how neighbours should live. The Book of Mark urges us to “Love your neighbour as yourself”. In this context, it instructs the communities of Mahube Valley and Mountain View informal settlement to tolerate and respect each other as neighbours. As the City we acknowledge that the root cause of this clash is as a result of a housing backlog, not only in the city but which is a national crisis. This shortage of housing has led to a proliferation of informal settlements where people live cheek by jowl and share basic services. Tshwane has 133 informal settlements, with approximately 24 000 people on the waiting list of the housing needs register, a backlog that dates back as far as 1998. This is the reality we are faced with in the city. During a meeting with representatives of the Mountain View informal settlement, top of their list of demands was the electrification of their area. We have an Integrated Development Plan (IDP) process and must adhere to the Municipal Finance Management Act (MFMA) guidelines in providing services. Our municipality is highly regulated by the MFMA and proper planning and budget allocations have to be applied. There are many other informal settlements which date back further than Mountain View, and are waiting to be formalised to receive electricity and other basic services as part of Project Tirane which was announced in the State of the Capital Address in April. In the budget, I said far too many people still lived in poverty and in this city there s a huge divide between the rich and the poor, with people living without access to basic services. It is to these people of the city that we committed ourselves. Our 2017/18 Integrated Development Plan is unapologetically pro-poor and we are confident it will achieve the following: Seven informal settlements in Tshwane will be formalised and there will be: 10400 new electricity connections. 10150 new water metered connections. 6500 new households with access to sanitation. 121km municipal stormwater drainage network provision. Improved weekly waste removal services. 13km of new tarred roads. Meanwhile, in resolving the situation in Mabube Valley, the City announced the following resolutions: A team from the city will conduct an assessment and viability study on providing temporary rudimentary services to the informal settlement of Mountain View; The City will conduct a feasibility study of the future development of the area; and The City will hold another engagement with the formal home owners from Mahube Valley in the near future to consolidate inputs from both sides. That I made mention of “building a wall” (as was reported in the Pretoria News) was merely misinterpreted. We do not intend to separate neigbours; our job is to reconcile and protect people and property. I merely mentioned the wall as an example to illustrate that we need a lasting solution to the tensions, not a physical wall as my comment was interpreted to mean. Msimang is executive mayor of the City of Tshwane