This was how 17-year-old Avash Sewpaul described preparations for attending the SAIIA Young Leaders Conference, hosted by the Department of International Relations and Co-operation in Pretoria this week. He is among 75 young people from the region who said they had researched, negotiated and had their resolutions declared and presented to Deputy Minister of the Department of International Relations and Co-operation Nomaindiya Mfeketo for approval before they attended. “I presented child and youth rights on an international level, we all know South Africa has amazing policies on children’s rights,” he said. “A few problems I came across when I researched included the lack of awareness and the aspect of the responsibilities of children,” he said yesterday. The three-day conference was in its last day yesterday, and the young leaders from Mozambique, Zimbabwe, Zambia and South Africa held discussions under the theme “African potential: Creating a youth dividend for the continent”. Sewpaul said the South African Institution of International Affairs (SAIIA) was one of the few platforms that allowed children to be heard. “I think this is one of the projects where you get exposure through education,” he said. “I am grateful to be here because it exposes me not only to people in my country but to students from the SADC region, students you don’t normally get to meet.” They came together with a similar passion and similar mindsets to discuss issues to see how they related and it presented something different from what they knew, he said. “Other countries have similar fears to ours and they also have solutions, which is why this year’s conference was diverse,” the young man added. Mfeketo acknowledged the youth as passionate and said she was delighted to see a set-up of young men and women "similar to that of the AU". “I’m encouraged to see the growth of this conference with our partnership with SAIIA. This programme addresses issues that are central to South Africa’s future development and the continent,” Mfeketho said. “This year's theme connects with the AU’s theme of harnessing the demographic dividend through the youth,” she said. Matheko Badana, director of public participation at Dirco, said it was sad to hear how many young people still faced integration issues at home. He encouraged them them to push for ubuntu when they went back home. “It’s sad to hear young people like you are still facing integration issues, what we are doing in this conference is promoting active integration and we need to preserve ubuntu,” said Badana.