To which Malema agreed. These words got me thinking even harder about a question I had been pondering for a while now. Could I vote for the EFF in 2019? Malema has worked on his image over the past few years. When he speaks he sounds more presidential and more appealing to clever, almost born-free blacks like myself. Malema sorted out the mockery that was his academic achievement and graduated last year from Unisa. This proved to me that he's well aware of the importance of education and would do anything to ensure that educating the black child remained a priority in our country if he became president. Oh, his executive committee are educated people who really want to usher in the radical economic freedom in their lifetime. Is that reason enough to vote for the EFF? He is now married. In the black culture or community, even in a democratic and modern world like we live in today, getting a wife is a sign that you are more settled in life. It is largely interpreted as being responsible and being manly. Is that reason enough to vote for the EFF? For that, many black people have given him the thumbs up and continue to see him as a man on a mission. The conservative in me, also agrees that getting married is a big deal to such a fairly young leader as Malema. Malema has shown incredible weight-loss. Our own police officers, people who are supposed to run or chase criminals are not even fit. They have little or no regard for the importance of weight loss and looking after themselves. Without him screaming at us every time he is on the podium, looking at him sends a strong message that says people can and should lead a healthy lifestyle. Is that reason enough to vote for the EFF? Then you listen to Malema when he speaks, the angry, insulting and perhaps even childish ways have disappeared. He articulates his points very well. He speaks calmly even when responding to something provocative. He commands respect now more than ever. It really gives me goosebumps when he starts talking. He is relevant and well informed. Let us not forget his past. Many want to crucify Malema for his former life. I am calling it former because I strongly believe that he has changed. I am yet to meet a young black person in politics or business, at the prime of their naivety, where living a lavish lifestyle is a dream, where being offered power, money and influence could give you a ticket out of poverty and that young person said "no". Is that reason enough to vote for the EFF? I believe Malema was a victim of circumstance which could have easily been influenced by those who knew better without his realising that he was  getting himself into future trouble. So, for all that, I forgive him, because his past is the least of my worries. When you are a child, you speak, move and act like a child. But when you grow up you put childish things away. I believe he has done so. Is that reason enough to vote for the EFF? Turning to the policies of his party, this is very tricky. There are seven cardinal, non-negotiable pillars of the EFF. I, like many other young black South Africans, am longing for land. We dream about land but we want to work the land not just own it. Tenders have cost tax-payers a lot of money and they have been the fastest way to enrich a lot of people with little or no benefit to the poorest of the poor who were supposed to get service delivery from these tenders. I am all for quality education. Our education system is flawed. It needs a make-over. We have given away too much of our natural resources for too long for too little. So, I believe industrialisation is pivotal for the development of our economy and job creation. The African economy has to benefit Africans. We all want a corruption-free government. So, out of the seven pillars of the EFF, it is only the nationalisation of mines, banks, and other strategic sectors of the economy that I haven’t got my head around. The jury is still out on that one. Is that reason enough to vote for the EFF? For a young man who I believe was deceived by his leaders, by people who I think were his mentors, who had turned his life around to build such a massive and progressive political party, I salute Malema. But could I vote for the EFF in 2019? Honestly, the answer is in the secret ballot. Kabelo Chabalala is the founder of the Young Men Movement. E-mail, kabelo03chabalala@gmail.com, Twitter, @KabeloJay, Facebook: Kabelo Chabalala