She was 11 when she entered and won a local beauty pageant. “The experience birthed something in me. I continued entering school pageants and with the support of my late father I felt like I could conquer the world. “With every pageant I entered it meant that I would get a new dress and a pair of heels. And that was the exciting part of it so I always looked forward to the crowning,” Letsoalo recalled. The 21-year-old from Jericho, near Brits, is a part-time model, founder of non-profit organisation Sisterz with Purpose Foundation, and is completing a BCom in marketing and business management at Damelin college in the city. Both of her parents have died. She said her father was her greatest supporter. “I’m an only child from my mom and dad, both of whom have departed the Earth when I was little. “This on its own was life-changing, but my dad, who was my surviving parent for the longest time, was my greatest supporter,” she said. She said he took pride in her successes. “He used to tell his friends that I would become Miss South Africa one day. Just hearing him say that motivated me and led me to falling in love with pageants more. “This made me pursue modelling and it slowly grew in me day by day and became my dream,” Letsoalo said. She described entering Miss Heritage South Africa International 2017 as a huge step as she wanted to become a cultural ambassador for her country, and the fact that it was a national pageant meant it had given her exposure in the modelling industry and the opportunity to travel abroad. She said if she had to win the Miss Heritage title, she would give her all to the community by being hands-on in community projects. “From winning the title I hope to inspire, lead, grow, to empower young girls with dreams. I hope to continue making a difference and to use the platform that the title brings to achieve greater things and to use wisely the opportunities that comes with it,” Letsoalo said. “Be your own greatest cheerleader, believe in yourself and chase after your dreams. It doesn’t matter who supports or disapprove of it,” she said, to encourage other young girls who wanted to be like her. When asked about her plans she replied: “ I aspire to become the next Miss South Africa one day.” Members of the public can vote for her on www.pageantvote.net