RAPULA MOATSHE[email&#160;protected] POLICE can't rule out whether several computers stolen during a brazen break-in that took place at the Hawks headquarters in Silverton on Wednesday morning was an inside job or not. Hawks spokesperson Brigadier Hangwani Mulauzi said: &quot;Everybody wants to know if it was an inside job. We don't know if it was an inside job or not, but we can't rule it out. There was no forced entry in the sections where computers were stolen.&quot; Several computers stolen from Promat Building were kept in the Human Resources, Finance and Supply Chain departments, according to Mulauzi. He said the stolen computers contained critical information because the HR facilities carried profiles about Hawks members. &quot;We don't know what they (thieves) want to do with such information,&quot; Mulauzi said. He could not ascertain the number of computers stolen because investigators were counting and assessing the information.&nbsp; Most of the information in connection with the incident would have been collated by the end of today, Mulauzi said. Case dockets were reportedly not stolen as they were kept in a safe place. Mulauzi said investigators had already downloaded video footage from the CCTV cameras and were assessing it. &quot;We have downloaded information from the CCTV cameras but we can't talk about it now as we are still assessing it. Most of the information we will get later today,&quot;he said.&nbsp;Zakhele Mbhele, DA shadow minister of police in Parliament condemned the break-in, saying the incident was unprecedented in the history of the Hawks.&nbsp; &quot;Police Minister, Fikile Mbalula, must let the nation know what action is being taken to find out who was responsible for the break-in and what contingencies are being put in place to stop similar incidents from happening. It should be one of the minister s priorities to ensure that in the future, this independent organised crime fighting unit is protected from all acts of intimidation, threats and attacks,&quot;Mbhele said.