They sat there, not expecting to see Miss South Africa Demi-Leigh Nel-Peters; but she pulled a huge surprise on the girls and their faces showed overwhelming ecstasy when she appeared. The Queen for a Day event was organised by Varsity College students and Reach for a Dream. Varsity College students started off by pampering the girls at their campus, with a make-up session before their huge surprise. And when the beauty queen walked in, the look on their faces was priceless. They were allowed to sit with her, curled next to her like they had known her for years, and told her all about their dreams, with one girl saying she wanted to be Miss South Africa one day. The treat for the day saw the girls being escorted by male students onto a red carpet, to the limousine with students cheering them on at the campus, and took the ride to the guesthouse Castello Di Monte. There, Mr South Africa 2016 Armand Du Plessis was waiting. Du Plessis showered the girls with jewellery from Donne Le Roux and teddy bears. Miss South Africa held a crowning ceremony and gave them Queen of the Day sashes, before they all had lunch together. “I am so happy, I did not expect to see Miss South Africa. It was such a big surprise for me because I love her and we had a day filled with happiness,” Oratile Masingi, one of the girls, said. “As humans, we want to feel recognised, we want to feel appreciated and today I feel that Reach for a Dream's Queen for a Day is about acknowledging these young ladies and making them feel special, loved, and wanted,” Nel-Peters said. She said all people deserve unconditional love and needed attention, and for her the highlight of the day was to see the smiles on their little faces. “When I first got there they were all very shy but after some time the girls warmed up to me and that was sweet. It made made me realise I had done something right which made them feel special in a way and that was my goal,” she added. Ingrid Baloyi, a field worker at Reach for a Dream, said their goal was to enhance their self esteem. “We want to enhance their self esteem as they go through treatment and half of the time the kids are at hospital so when we do Queen for a Day, it’s basically to make them feel confident and beautiful,” Baloyi said. She said the core for reach for a dream was to see the children happy. A caregiver for the children described what was done for the children as a privilege. “We are grateful as most of the children we look after are unprivileged. It is a privilege as they don’t usually have a day where they are pampered,” Patience Sekalo said.