Goitsemang Tlhabye THERE may never be songs of their heroic battles, but the small tombstones at the Irene Concentration Camp cemetery s Garden of Remembrance bear testament to the horrors endured by Boer children during the South African (Anglo-Boer) War. The camp, south of Pretoria, was built to house woman and children, driven from their land by the British troops scorched earth policy in which homes, farms and livestock were burnt and killed to break people s spirits. The Irene camp was opened in November 1900 with a second camp on the southern side of the Hennops River. By 1902, there were more than 5&nbsp;000 people living in the camps. Irene was one of 31 camps initially, later growing to 50. Cilliers du Preez, a member of the Heritage Society of Centurion, said conditions in the camps were appalling, as those forced to live there had inadequate food and water, and access to medical care.Irene was close to the railway line where families could be dropped off. But it was also bitterly cold in the winter, which aggravated conditions for people who had few possessions. Irene is easily four to five degrees colder than any other place in Pretoria. It was the worst place to be; the tents offered very little protection, no bedding and the children very quickly got sick which then turned into pneumonia and they died, he said.Another battle the children had to endure was malnourishment as the camp could go for days without food. And, when food was brought, some were too weak to even eat. There was only one doctor available to care for 500 children on average so there was little chance of seeing him. Things got to a point where the doctor implemented medical comfort prescriptions, just so inmates could get blankets, clothes, soap, candles and milk for the babies. There wouldn t be a day without the death of a child from April to October of 1901. Fifteen to 17 deaths would be recorded in the camps daily, he said.According to du Preez, while the first group of children who died in the camp were buried roughly 500m away, over time as the number of deaths increased, graves were dug closer to the camp with children sharing graves. The graves were numbered but many graves have never been identified.One diary insert detailed how a woman by the name of Mrs Truter was forced to get up after having delivered twins, and walk in heavy rain to the station. One of her twins died on the way and the second child died in the camp. The camps were closed in 1903 and in 1958 Irene Concentration Camp was turned into a garden of remembrance with symbolic tombstones.It is a moving place to go and learn more of South Africa s history. It is adjacent to Irene Primary School in the heart of Irene and the popular Oval was part of the camp s recreational facility. The garden is a national heritage site.