The latest developments have emerged against the backdrop of the Black Lawyers Association (BLA) confirming that it is weighing taking Judge Jansen to the Equality Court for the “racially offensive statements” shared on her Facebook wall in 2015 that portrayed black fathers as rapists. JSC secretary Sello Chiloane has confirmed that a Mpumalanga farmer, Johan le Roux, has filed a misconduct complaint  against the former Gauteng High Court, Pretoria Judge. The latest complaint, lodged by Le Roux, relates to cases that Judge Jansen presided over from February 2015 to March 2016. Le Roux alleges that Judge Jansen “colluded” with Mpumalanga’s so-called “Boere Mafia” to, among other things, help them “fraudulently” take over his family’s R211 million 
Plaston farm in Mpumalanga for a paltry R28m. The “Boere Mafia” are allegedly remnants of apartheid’s Broederbond secret society, who advocate BJ Bredenkamp, a former senior prosecutor at the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA), once described as being feared and too powerful. Bredenkamp said at the time: “A matter of concern to this office (NPA) is the repeated indications/rumours that a group of influential people and institutions in Nelspruit, certain attorneys and the farming community appear to be too powerful to be investigated.” In his founding affidavit seen by Independent Media, Le Roux claims that Judge Jansen delivered an “outrageous” default judgment in September 2015, which led to his family’s farm being liquidated in order for the “Boere Mafia” to purchase Plaston during a public auction at a price, Le Roux said, that was well below market value. Le Roux said that the judgment was outrageous because his legal representatives were not given an opportunity to argue against 
liquidation. He added that Plaston had “18 highly valuable properties” around the Kruger Mpumalanga International Airport valued at over R211m at the start of the “fraudulent liquidation”, but was sold for just over R28 million in May last year. “(There was no) proper advertising in the Government Gazette (for the public auction) as well as elsewhere, with material misrepresentation, without allowing any viewing of the property, without any advertisement boards at the property’s entries,” Le Roux asserted in his affidavit. He further alleges in the complaint, that runs to over 2 000 pages, that Judge Jansen was aware of all these “fraudulent” activities but turned a blind eye. JSC spokesperson CP Fourie acknowledged that the complaint had been received by the body’s secretariat and the matter has been referred to the Judicial Conduct Committee, a body within the JSC “mandated to deal with complaints against judges”. JSC’s Chiloane also confirmed that the complaint had been received. He said Judge Jansen would only be informed of the complaint if they rule that there is merit in the case and that the matter should be investigated. “Until then she will not know about it and you guys (Independent Media) should not bother her with questions about the complaint. Rather direct all queries to this office (JSC) at the moment,” said Chiloane. He added that the JCC didn’t sit for just one case and Le Roux should only expect a determination about the way forward in mid-August after it sits. Jansen gained infamy in a  2015 Facebook discussion on the public page of film-maker Gillian Schutte. Judge Jansen made a series of comments, including that 99% of the criminal cases she heard were of “black fathers/uncles/brothers raping children as young as five”. “She wrote: ‘Want to read my files: rape, rape, rape, rape, rape, rape of minors by black family members. It is never-ending’.” Schutte later released the messages. - Additional reporting by IOL