RAPULA MOATSHE COMMUTERS using the City s A Re Yeng buses from the inner city to Wonderboom may continue to enjoy the free rides until further notice. The rides were announced under the #ConnectingtheCapital campaign on the bus rapid transit system s Facebook page on May 2. Commuters were invited to travel for free between Wonderboom and the heart of the city.The free rides were organised in preparation for the official launch of the new route, which was expected to go live after May 31. Despite that date having already passed, the city said commuters could continue to board the buses for free.MMC for roads and transport Sheila-Lynn Senkubuge yesterday said the delay for not going live was due to some teething problems.She declined to specify the nature of the problem, saying full information on the project would be revealed as soon as we are ready to go live .Asked about the anticipated date for the city to go live, she said: It will be a bit irresponsible of me to say at this stage. We are soon going to have a media briefing at which we will disclose all the information. The city announced two months ago that commuters could look forward to board A Re Yeng from the CBD to the north of the city at no cost.The route serves as a link from Wonderboom, entering the city centre through Paul Kruger Street and on to Church Square and beyond.Social media users had mixed reactions to the announcement when it was made.Facebook user Chan&eacute; Engelbrecht was interested in knowing about the bus lanes in Brooklyn. When will the Brooklyn and Menlyn lines start operating? End of last year we were told (it will operate) in the middle of this year (and) it s the middle of the year already, she said.Another, Bernardine Podmore Chambers, asked: Where is the bus from Wonderboom to Pretoria North? Nice bus, but you have to walk from Wonderboom to Pretoria North. Other users wanted to know about feeder buses going in and around Pretoria North and Akasia. What happens when you get to Wonderboom? Keba Seakatsie asked. In reply, the city said there were no feeder buses going to the surrounding areas in Wonderboom, Annlin and other places in the north.The travelling time for buses on weekdays is from 4.30am until 9.50pm, while on Saturdays it runs from 5am until 9.50pm. On Sunday buses operate from 6am to 8pm.The A Re Yeng system was the brainchild of the ANC-led administration under former mayor Kgosientso Ramokgopa and was hailed as an A-rated public transport in the country, Africa and the world.