And so far, MEC of Community Safety and Security Sizakele Nkosi-Malobane and Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa have promised to walk short distances with him in the event, titled Deactivate Bluetooth Nyaope. Several other social media users have expressed an interest in joining him. The walk is to raise funds to “deactivate Bluetooth”, a method of sharing blood among nyaope smokers. They use the method to share the high when there isn’t enough of the drug to go around. “The long walk is to raise awareness of the serious drug problem in our communities. “We are all affected directly or indirectly by drugs. “Enough is enough,” Malala said. “I am calling on everyone to join hands and let’s fight this. “For those who can’t make the trip, there is a local 5km walk on the second day. Remember any donation is welcome. “The aim is to take 200 addicts on our data base into rehab.” Malala said that after he broke the news of Bluetooth on his radio show earlier this year and uncovered how young men in his community used needles to pass blood from one to the other, social media went into a frenzy. He said the conversation about substance abuse grew, but after the frenzy conversation quietened down. “After all that media hype nothing happened; so I grew concerned,” he said. He said he could not let this go because he went to school with some of the young men abusing the substance. He was saddened by the outcome of their choices and addiction to nyaope. “It is sad to see them sharing a high by exchanging blood,” he said. The scourge had worsened as addicts found new methods of taking the drugs, he added. “It is now worse because they are injecting their private parts in search for veins,” he said. Being a social media activist, Malala said he wanted to encourage people on Facebook to join hands in fighting drugs in their communities. Being joined by Nkosi-Malobane and Ramaphosa boosted his move. “I am calling on everyone to join hands and let’s fight this,” he said. Malala said he had started training to prepare for the journey, and his trainer Jonathan Baloyi would be beside him all the way. The walk will start near Grayston Road in Sandton, Joburg north, at 7am on August 11 and proceed along the highway towards Pretoria. On reaching the Pretoria CBD later in the day, Malala and the core group of about five people plan to camp on the roadside for the night. “The aim is to go through the same experience as the nyaope addicts who sleep on the pavements,” he explained. The following day, the group will proceed towards Soshanguve in the morning, ending up at Mini Stadium in Block K, by then joined by those who will embark on a planned 5km reception walk. Various activities have been planned at the stadium, including aerobics.