Cape Town - Leading digital money transfer service WorldRemit and Huawei have announced their partnership making WorldRemit’s international money transfer service available to all partners of Huawei’s mobile service platform across Africa.  The partnership was announced at the GSMA’s Mobile 360 conference in Dar es Salaam. By enabling WorldRemit to connect to over 100 million mobile accounts currently using Huawei’s platform, the deal will also improve access to mobile money remittance for millions of people.  WorldRemit is the first international remittance company to artner directly with Huawei and the deal is expected to increase WorldRemit’s technical integrations with new mobile money operators. Technical integration is regularly a barrier to offering international remittances for mobile network operators (MNO’s) to the GSMA, therefore WorldRemit and Huawei are lowering that barrier, enabling Huawei partners to swiftly switch on this service.  Read also:  Huawei commits to Africa Vice President of Huawei Southern Africa, David Chen said: “International
remittance is a very important mobile money service in Africa, and our
partnership with WorldRemit will bring international remittances directly to
Huawei’s customers across the continent. Huawei is committed to providing
advanced mobile money platforms and technologies to global mobile money
operators.” Huawei built its mobile money service platform to deliver
basic banking transactions in developing countries. The technology is not
restricted and because of the fact that it works on both smartphones and basic
handsets it has been very successful in developing markets. Founder & CEO of WorldRemit, Ismail Ahmed said: “We are
delighted to add our remittance offering to Huawei’s extensive range of
services for mobile money providers. By making it easier to connect to our
service, our partnership will accelerate our ability to introduce our safe,
fast and low-cost remittance service to millions of people.” WorldRemit is the leading global provider of remittances,
processing 74 percent of all international transfers to mobile money accounts
that are from money transfer operators, so they make sending money as easy as
sending an instant message. BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE  