Former President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva arrived there on Wednesday to testify before Sergio Moro, the lead jurist in the sprawling corruption probe known as Operation Carwash. If convicted of any of the charges against him, including bribe-taking and influence trafficking, the charismatic leftist who ended his second term with an approval rating of 80% could end up in prison, dashing any political comeback. What started three years ago as an investigation into a money-laundering scheme run out of a petrol station has blown up into a scandal that has tarnished Brazil’s political establishment and made Moro into a folk hero. The judge’s fans are pleading with him to run for president in 2018, with opinion polls placing him second to just one person: Lula. Moro will question the ex-president about claims he received benefits from a construction company trying to curry his favour. In the view of Lula’s supporters - and some of his rivals - Brazil’s political system itself is on trial. “It’s a battle between the political class and the judiciary, symbolised by two giants,” said Rogerio Arantes, a political scientist at the University of São Paulo. “We’ll have to wait and see which one of these two wins.” The left-wing leader’s red-shirted supporters were bused into Curitiba, a wealthy and conservative city. From the 13th Federal Criminal Court there, Harvard-educated Moro has tried, convicted and imprisoned dozens of the Brazilian elite for their part in a scheme that siphoned over $2 billion from the state-run oil company, Petroleo Brasileiro SA. Lula, out of office since 2010, has long been in Moro’s sights. In March last year, the judge issued a warrant authorising the ex-president’s temporary detention for questioning, sparking scuffles between supporters and police. On leaked tapes of phone taps sanctioned by Moro, Lula fretted about the power of “the Republic of Curitiba.” Locals have seized on the term as a badge of honour. In a country where the rich and powerful too often escape justice Moro’s crusading judicial activism has turned him into a hero for millions. Billboards in the city centre show Lula in prison uniform along with the slogan “The Republic of Curitiba awaits you with open jails #WeAreAllCarWash.” At least one was vandalised with red paint. “Moro is the hero bringing down all those thieves,” said Diego de Aguiar, a municipal worker. Like many in the city, he is braced for trouble when the hearing gets under way. Supporters of Lula marched to the city centre to blast Moro and defend Lula.