And what a statement it would be if the Bulls pull off the biggest upset of the season, considering where they stand after a horrid start to the season. They have one win in six matches while the Crusaders have flexed their muscles from the onset and are on a nine-match winning streak. However, the Bulls have shown signs of recovery and, while their wins against the Jaguares and Cheetahs were not convincing, it went a long way to easing the pressure they were under after losing to the Sunwolves in Tokyo. With undoubtedly their biggest game of the season staring them in the eye, Strauss has made a rallying call to his team to finally come good and play to their potential. “We see it as an opportunity to play the way we want to. We’ve had moments here and there but we haven’t put together a great performance for 80 minutes. So this is an opportunity to go out and do that and a great opportunity because we are going to be challenged by a quality team. It is an opportunity to play the way we want to play, under pressure by a great side and we don’t get those opportunities often. So it is good,” Strauss said at yesterday’s team 
announcement at Loftus. The Bulls have played in patches this season which has largely led to their demise. And, while they may have shown glimpses of how good a team they can be, it has not been enough to turn results in their favour. If the Bulls don’t put up the 80-minute perfection Strauss so desperately seeks, then they will find themselves on the end of an embarrassing score as has been the case with the Cheetahs and Stormers 
recently. Not only do the Crusaders come with the pedigree of 
being the most successful team in the competition’s history but they come to the capital wanting to overturn a bad history at Loftus where they last won in 2008. Even with the odds heavily stacked against the Bulls, there is a strong 
belief within the men in blue that they can stand and compete against the wrecking ball that is the Crusaders. “They’ve always got great individuals but it’s also the reputation of the Crusaders. They are the most successful team in the history of the competition. They are the biggest team to play against and that makes it massive. “It gives guys an opportunity to prove themselves against the best in the competition and it is a great challenge for the youngsters to play against New Zealand teams. “Two years ago it went our way here and it is always tough against them but it is moments like these that we play for,” said Strauss.  TEAM Bulls STARTING XV: Warrick 
Gelant, Travis Ismaiel, Jamba Ulengo, Jesse Kriel, Burger Odendaal, Tian Schoeman, Piet van Zyl, Hanro Liebenberg, Jacques Potgieter, Nick de Jager, Lood de Jager, Jason Jenkins, Trevor Nyakane, Adriaan Strauss (captain), Pierre Schoeman;
 Replacements: Jaco Visagie, Lizo Gqoboka, Jacobie Adriaanse, RG Snyman, Jannes Kirsten, Rudy Paige, Francois Brummer, Jan Serfontein.