Durban - Thousands of refugees have been trained to do coding,
making them employable, the World Economic Forum on Africa session titled
“Solutions from Space” heard on Friday. Sunil Geness from SAP software company said the training
programme was moving through 10 countries, including France, Germany, North
Palestine, Iraq, Denmark and Sweden. “Coding is the language of the future,” he said, adding
that his company wished to expand the programme into South Africa to help with
job creation. The session heard that the effects of migration had made
space science highly relevant, given the amount of people movement in various
parts of the world and the subsequent need for large-scale, rapid planning. Closer to home, Science and Technology Minister Naledi
Pandor says she sometimes picks up flack for becoming involved in space
science. “They [people from richer nations] say - let us do the
space science - you feed your people.” Her defence is that while true space science may not be
cheap, its benefits can be huge in return for a small amount of the gross
domestic product. And feeding people is indeed where it can be beneficial,
she pointed out. “A few years ago, looking at a report on climate change
and its impact in agrarian ability, we didn’t notice the desertification of a
certain area. Had we known about it earlier [with the help of space technology]
we would have been better prepared,” she said. Panelist Saran Jones, from Liberia, who is with the
organisation, Face Africa, and involved in water infrastructure to communities
across the continent, said satellite planning was an attractive option for a
project she was undertaking in her home country. “In the municipality I am working the population has more
than doubled over the past 10 years. It has put a strain on water
infrastructure. Jones said space technology would be useful to save time
and be a more accurate way to survey the place compared with traditional survey
methods. Yosef Akhtman, CEO of Gamaya in Switzerland said space
observation was not abstract. “We use our eyes on the environment around us to make
daily decisions. “In the same way we should use satellites to collectively
react to our environment. “For forestry, agriculture, planning, we should be using
satellite imagery to see what we are doing. We need to open our eyes,” he said INDEPENDENT MEDIA
WEF TEAM