Thabo Mbeki, who led South Africa between 1999 and 2008, recently wrote about the possibility of another no-confidence motion against Zuma, now being tabled by the opposition. He argued that should such a vote happen, MPs should vote in the national interest rather than obey orders from their party. Mbeki has always viewed himself as an intellectual titan, not simply another calculating politician looking to land the latest blow. His contributions to the national and international conversation supposedly carry a weight and gravitas that demand deference. This supposedly elevates him above Zuma, an essentially grubby and scheming politician devoid of substance who is incapable of raising his gaze beyond his own immediate political and material interests. Given Mbeki’s record in national office, his lofty reputation is not entirely deserved. His argument that MPs are principally accountable to “the people” would make more sense if they were directly elected. But they aren’t. Under South Africa’s proportional representation system people vote for parties, not individual representatives. Parliamentary candidates run on lists drawn up by their party leaders, and their ranking on the list is what determines their chance of getting into office. This in turn means that whether or not lawmakers intentionally defy the will of the people (whatever that means), their understanding and expression of the people’s interest is filtered through their party affiliation. Mbeki’s position has an uncharacteristically populist edge, then, and it doesn't amount to much of a plan of action. How exactly should MPs determine the will of the people? The size of protest marches? Opinion polls? Strict loyalty to a party line is certainly contentious, but it can at least be traced back to a direct electoral mandate. Mbeki’s new-found populism is also a radical about-face from his own behaviour as president of both his party and his country. Freedom of conscience and deference to the electorate were not ideals which Mbeki was keen to nurture - quite the opposite, in fact. Mbeki was a ferocious centraliser who worked hard to concentrate power in his own office. He punished dissent, and imposed his own discipline on party and government from the top down. So when Mbeki argues that the controversy around Zuma has finally “imposed on our country the opportunity and obligation the better to define the constitutional and moral relationship between the people and their elected representatives”, one is compelled to ask: what exactly has changed? It’s only right that many should want to end Zuma’s squalid, incompetent and shameful presidency, but that is no reason to recast the Mbeki era as some sort of golden age. Five years into Mbeki’s tenure, Archbishop Desmond Tutu lamented the “sycophantic, obsequious conformity” and “unthinking, uncritical, kow-towing, party line-toeing” which had become the ANC norm. This is vocabulary Mbeki is now using. As political conversions go, it’s hypocritical and cynical. *  Hamill is a lecturer in politics and international relations, University of Leicester