Durban -
The South African narrative needs to be one that makes it attractive to young
people so that they are encouraged to help grow the economy, according to
President Jacob Zuma.  Zuma was
speaking in a wide-ranging exclusive interview with Independent Media at the
27th World Economic Forum on Africa in Durban yesterday. He said
that it was important that government and the media worked together to
communicate policy and development so that young people felt more patriotic and
enthusiastic about developing South Africa’s economy. Zuma
said that the South African narrative conveyed by the media was sometimes so
negative that it often resulted in making the country unattractive to young
people. “You
can’t be rubbishing the country all the time. Because you want to criticize an
individual, you end up making the whole country look bad,” said Zuma. Zuma
said that government had made tremendous progress in the past 23 years and that
it needed to be communicated better to the public. He singled out the progress
being made in education where he bemoaned the backlog of quality education
caused by institutional racism and the effect it was having on the youth. Earlier
in the day, Zuma said that the continent’s youth was impatient and had made it
clear to their leaders that they need to address exclusion, unemployment and
poverty. “For us to move forward, we need that energy, we need
that imagination that young people bring,” said Zuma. He added
that the youth was key to growing the economy and therefore youth empowerment
needed to be high on the agenda. “When we
speak about empowerment, we are speaking about education. Here again, we are
inhibited by our history and institutional racism. There is not enough tertiary
institutions for the youth. In some provinces, there was not even a single
tertiary institution. To add to this at some point we made a mistake, and we
have to admit it. We closed down colleges that empowered young people in a
different way because we had a very different way of what we perceived
education to be,” said Zuma He said
since then, government had worked tirelessly to address the backlog and had
made education an apex priority. ““As
government, it sometimes seems as if we are not doing enough but we have done a
lot to reverse the backlog. There is now a plan in place. We have made
education an apex priority and we will continue to spend a lot of money on it.
This shows that we are serious about empowering the youth. So what we are
saying is that the youth have an important part to play and this can be
achieved by us opening up the economy to everyone,” said Zuma. The 2017 World Economic Forum on Africa is taking place
in Durban under the theme Achieving Inclusive Growth through Responsive
and Responsible Leadership. The meeting convenes regional and global
leaders from business, government and civil society to explore solutions to
create economic opportunities. INDEPENDENT MEDIA
WEF TEAM