“I cannot promise you lies. I would be lying if I told you that we are going to provide for your needs any time soon,” he said. This follows a dramatic protest on Wednesday when hundreds of residents took to the streets to voice their service delivery woes. Large rocks and garbage were scattered across the R55 freeway. Nkomo was summoned with a memorandum of residents’ gripes - the provision of electricity, roads and proper sanitation. Nkomo was given seven days to deliver on the list of demands. Nkomo and ward councillor Mohammed  Essop met representatives of the Itireleng community to discuss their service delivery issues. “The reality is that all these demands need a sufficient amount of time for them to be met,” he said. “But that does not mean that we cannot do anything in the meantime. We can attend to the more immediate.” Nkomo said  the city administration was working on a  budget that would be finalised by the end of this month and approved by the council. He admitted that the city’s finances were in shambles and not stable. “The issue of electricity and the installation of taps would be considered in the next budget,” Nkomo said. Immediate action will be given to waste management issues starting from Monday. Essop and  officials of the waste management department will visit the area. “We will be providing the community with refuge bags as a short-term goal while looking into more viable and long-term solutions,” he said. Other long term solutions include shack re-marking to identify residents and proof of residence. Nkomo said before the city could deliver services, it first needed to establish the rightful residents of the area. “We need to identify and get residents’ ID numbers so taxes and rates can also be paid,” he said. The process of marking the shacks, Nkomo said, would begin in July. Community representatives complained about illegal foreigners occupying land and building shacks in the area. They also complained about “outside” people renting space to residents. “People as far as Soshanguve and Atteridgeville have numerous stands which they are renting out,” said community leader Frank Matipa. Moses Maise, chairperson of The Hills, part of Itireleng, said they welcomed the proposal from the MMC, but were wary that in the past, they were also sold empty promises. “Action speaks louder than words, but we are optimistic that the city will deliver. “We are giving them the benefit of the doubt,” he said. The representatives indicated that they were only representing a certain section. Their counterparts from other areas may have to be consulted. Nkomo said he could not work with different representatives and urged them to identify one group only. The residents had earlier alleged that Essop showed absolutely no interest in Itireleng and favoured residents from the nearby Laudium. Essop denied  these allegations. “I have only been in office since August last year. Proper and adequate service delivery needs time,” said Essop.