It is unfortunate that the people had to wait until things fell apart to realise that, as Nelson Mandela said, “the power is in your hands. If the ANC government does to you what the apartheid government did, you must do to the ANC government what you did to the apartheid government”. For a long time, using the best brains it has including Thabo Mbeki, Joel Netshitendzhe, Pallo Jordan , Itumeleng Mosala and Paul Mashatile, the governing party has desired to incentivise citizens to participate and contribute to governance. It was not a one-shot deal. Most people may have forgotten that the Department of Arts and Culture was turned into a single, independent and autonomous organ of state with the sole mandate to promote social cohesion as a priority programme of government. Renowned academics and intellectuals including Netshitendzhe, Andries Oliphant, Leslie Dikeni and Dr Trish Hanekom were at the forefront to conceptualise and implement the programme. In fact, in 2009 a historic re-enactment of the Congress of the People was hosted in Kliptown, Soweto, attended by more than 2000 delegates from all the major political parties - big and small - and representatives from the church, labour, NGOs and community organisations. That historic event exploded on to the television screens of the country. Unfortunately, the people witnessing a turning point occur in their lifetime did not grasp what was happening. It was that moment when President Jacob Zuma, who delivered the keynote address, urged the people to be key players in redefining the country to be what they wanted it to be. The essence of the social cohesion programme was to acutely define the challenges and problems that face the country and to offer solutions. Above all, it was to encourage the people to what had fashionably become known as active citizenship where the people take ownership, participate and contribute to making the country what they want it to be. The initiative provided a clear and concise answer to what was asked by Archbishop Thabo Makgoba during his special Easter ceremony: “What are our obligations as citizens, all of us with equal rights and responsibilities under the constitution? You have heard me say this before: our destiny is not a matter of chance. It is a matter of choice. Your choice. My choice. Our choice.” If you ask most people what they have done to create the South Africa that they want, they will not be able to give you a clear and proper answer. This is because most of them gave up their power when FW De Klerk released the Rivonia Triallists and Nelson Mandela, unbanned the liberation movement and allowed exiles to return home. It was at that point that the people who pushed the apartheid regime against the wall to dismantle an unjust system through what came to be the Mass Democratic Movement gave up and handed over power to former exiles to dictate what would happen in South Africa. Looking back, it was a monumental mistake to give power to people who did not know this country enough because they had been in exile or jail for, at least, 25-30 years. They had relied on Western media to be informed about the radical Struggle that was taking place in the country. But after only 10 years in power with Mandela having retired to give power to Thabo Mbeki in 2008 or thereabout, the ANC government came up with the social cohesion strategy to solidify massive participation in government beyond voting once every five years. The social cohesion programme was to be spearheaded by the Department of Arts and Culture and included the Presidency and other pivotal departments like Education, Justice and Constitutional Development, Social Development and the Police. Most important, a national steering committee co-opted NGO leaders and representatives to participate and contribute to the evolution of society. The major problems were economic inequality, spatial division and lack of solidarity among the people. The goal was to create a nationwide network of activists to give democracy substantive meaning. Numerous consultative meetings or conversations were convened in grassroots communities for people to participate. But this carried the seeds of self-destruction because there were not enough resources, poor turnout at gatherings and people attended to sleep in hotels and enjoy free food. Very little input was coming from the people who expected the government to be the Messiah that would provide everything without their participation or contribution. It was a tragic revelation to realise that South African citizens were apathetic to social cohesion and active agents of their own fate and future. Something in the people had collapsed and could not even be saved by social cohesion ambassadors who included eminent personalities like Dennis Goldberg, Yvonne Mokgoro, Ahmed Kathrada, poet Don Mattera and other prominent activists and intellectuals. Perhaps citizens must acknowledge that, if things have fallen apart, blame cannot be put on any single person. The government was in the forefront of inviting people to be agents of what they desired to see happen in the country. According to social cohesion philosophy, everything that happens in the country is a direct result of what people do or do not do in their conduct, behaviour and attitude. To paraphrase Makgoba, people are the masters of their fate and destiny. What this means is that when we live in a society afflicted by prejudice and stereotypes, crime and corruption, above all, economic inequality and social injustice, every citizen is culpable. One understands that politicians and government officials are flawed human beings who will always desire to get more than they deserve from state resources. A decent salary will not be enough in a money-driven and material-worshipping capitalist society. As a result, there is crime and corruption over tenders because the people have abdicated their oversight role and responsibilities. Late as it is, it is a welcome development that the people have come together by themselves to form a citizens’ movement that transcends race, creed and class, without sinister agendas. What we have witnessed over the past few months is a positive development where South Africans are reclaiming responsibility and saying “enough is enough”, they cannot allow the inheritance of their children go to the dogs. There is  political awakening and re-energising of the people to, once again, be active agents of the future they want for their offspring. Yes, space by space, march by march, one experience and the same situation repeating itself over and over again in various parts of the country, the people have awoken. They are speaking in loud and clear terms to say: the people shall govern! In a democratic sovereignty people do not give up their power to allow themselves to be subjected to foreign interests and influence. This they must guard against. Power must always rest with the people themselves. If we are to be fair to the ANC, it is what it is because the people have allowed it unfettered power by abdicating their responsibility. But the most positive development is that much as the perceived breaking down of South Africa is a painful thing, the people have to assume responsibility for everything that happens in their society. It has been said that evil thrives when good men and women choose not to do something. The people have awoken, at last, and chosen to do something. With hindsight, it has always been the desire of the governing party to restore power to the people. But that would not have happened without the people claiming it back. The Department of Arts needs to re-energise its social cohesion programme to bring all the people from disparate backgrounds together to re-imagine the society they want to create. The birth of an independent and self-determining citizens’ movement is a significant step in the right direction.  Sandile Memela is a writer, cultural critic and former chief director: social cohesion at the Department of Arts & Culture. He writes in his personal capacity.