The government plans to introduce a New Equitable Economic Empowerment Bill to parliament which will make the proposed redistribution mandatory  in a bid to reverse the impacts of decades of colonisation. The government of President Hage Geingob argues 27 years of independence has not yielded genuine economic transformation. The New Equitable Economic Empowerment Framework (NEEEF) will be tabled in parliament after the draft has been approved by Geingob, who is eager to address economic colonial 
imbalances. The government is concerned that the country’s means of production remain in the hands of the white population, which makes up 10% of the 2.5 million population, while more than 500 000 Namibians wallow in abject poverty. Most Namibians struggle to afford basics such and commercial and urban land. As a result, youth groups have marched to challenge the government to improve its land policy and make affordable accommodation more widely available. However, chief executive of the Namibia Chamber of Mines, Veston Malango, said the industry was concerned at the moves and believed they would damage an industry that is already faced with upheaval and investment flight. The chamber is advocating for what it calls more subtle policies to allow Namibian market forces to shape how reforms are implemented. “Effective partnerships are the only pillars of saving grace in the years to come,” Malango said. “What is required is an environment in which privately owned businesses, and thereby mining companies can flourish without having to comply with restrictive regulatory requirements.” Prime Minister Sara Kuugongelwa-Amadhila has often made it clear that the state was not backing down on the proposed legislation. He has insisted the policies would enable the majority of citizens to share in the benefits of the country’s vast mineral resources. Namibia’s mining sector conttributes 12.5% of GDP and is widely perceived as a sensitive sector. Driven by diamond and uranium production, mining employs up to 
8 000 Namibians. Malango raised concerns that the indigenisation plans coincides with the degrading of the country’s mining-investor rankings. He blamed this on “a bad economic patch” that has seen government debt rising to 42% above the sustainable threshold. This has prompted serious cuts in budgetary allocations and expenditure by the treasury. Malango said the extractive industries were crucial to economic growth and spurred the development of other industries. In his keynote speech at recent May Day commemorations, Geingob said there was “uproar” around NEEEF. “While criticising the imperfections of this policy, nobody seems to be bringing any alternative solutions to the table,” he said. The country’s third president said his administration had to admit that over the past 27 years, the country had not witnessed the significant transformation it had 
envisaged.  - CAJ News