Chelsea will secure the trophy with victory at West Bromwich Albion today but the Italian remains characteristically cautious until the job is complete. Only an incredible collapse could prevent Conte bagging the title in his first season and adding it to his three Serie A crowns achieved in successive seasons with Juventus. Asked to sum up the impending crowning of his team, former Italy manager Conte was quick to point out the state Chelsea were in when he was appointed last year. “First of all I like to underline that this season, it wasn’t easy at the start because we faced a lot of problems. “We had to solve a lot of problems because when you arrive 10th in the league it means there is not one problem, there are a lot. “The problem is not only one person. We started this season to try to solve the problems and find the solution to change the situation created in the previous season. “I like these situations. With the national team I took over in the worst period. "Then Chelsea in 10th, this is another big, big step for me. But in my career I enjoy to have this type of big challenge.” Conte is not the kind of manager to count his chickens and his manner suggests he will only be fully satisfied with a Premier League and FA Cup double. Chelsea face Arsenal in the Cup final on May 27. “It’s a good season and we want it to become a great season and then a fantastic season,” Contest said. Conte refused to be drawn on whether he could be tempted to take over Inter Milan next season after media reports linking him to the job at the San Siro. “I repeat what I have said before - I have a contract with Chelsea. In this moment the most important thing is to be focussed on the moment because that is very important,” he said. “We mustn’t forget we have to take three points in these three games and tomorrow we have the first opportunity to take three points. "Also we must know that to play West Brom is not easy. They are a strong, physical team, good coach and the atmosphere there can be very hot.” Meanwhile, Chelsea deserve to be top of the Premier League being the most consistent team this season, West Brom manager Tony Pulis said ahead of the two sides’ match at the Hawthorns. Chelsea’s 3-0 win over Middlesbrough on Monday moved them seven points clear at the top with three games left in the season. Pulis said his side would challenge the leaders to achieve their own targets. “Firstly you have to give Chelsea great credit,” Pulis said yesterday. “They deserve to be where they are and have been most consistent team. “We will give it our best tomorrow. We’re looking forward to it. We owe it to our supporters and we have our own targets to hit. “We are looking forward to a game of football which has three points riding on it, nothing else.” Midfielder Matt Phillips has been ruled out of the game while defender Jonny Evans and striker Hal-Robson Kanu face late fitness tests. Eighth-placed West Brom travel to fourth-placed Manchester City after the Chelsea clash and end their season at relegation-threatened Swansea City.