The Bulls reached an all-time low last weekend when they suffered a record defeat at home at the hands of the Crusaders and they could be in for more despair with another New Zealand side, the Highlanders, coming to town. Kriel, pictured, was one of a handful of standout players in Saturday’s embarrassing defeat. Beyond just being a wake-up call losing to the Crusaders with the 62-24 margin, Kriel admitted that it was a dose of reality for a team that once bossed the Super Rugby competition by winning three titles in four years. “I think it was reality, we weren’t good enough and it’s not our standards. We’ve played some good rugby this year at times and we disappointed ourselves on Saturday night. It’s back to the drawing board and we must get a new plan for the Highlanders this weekend. It’s going to take a lot of hard work, we are going to have to play a lot smarter and we can’t just throw the ball around and hope something is going to happen,” said Kriel. The repercussions of the Bulls loss to the Crusaders have gone beyond Saturday night and could easily result in coach Nollis Marais being relieved of his duties but Kriel says each and every player will need to take a hard look at themselves and turn over a new leaf if they are to mount a formidable challenge against the Highlanders. Said Kriel: “Everyone is obviously very disappointed. Every week you go into a game believing you are going to win the game and all of us truly believed that we were going to win the game against the Crusaders. We’ve got to give credit to the Crusaders, they were very good on the night, they were better than us and exposed us. We’ve got to take a hard look at ourselves. There is that 24 hour period where you got to hurt but now the feeling is that we are on a new page and we must put it (the loss) behind us and focus on the Highlanders this weekend. We can’t carry on hammering on this loss, it’s not nice but we have to look forward to the game this weekend.” For the better part of this season, the Bulls have lacked intensity fitness and conditioning. Kriel wants his teammates to start putting their bodies on the line for the cause. The only way out for the Bulls now will come down to how they are able to boss the Highlanders in the set-pieces, while their labours at the breakdown will also need to be impeccable. At the heart of the Bulls woes has been their inability to believe in the process and Kriel says they will need a change of mindset if they are to be competitive and see their fortunes change from being the whipping boys into a feared force again. “I just think they brought a different intensity which made us look flat. “I think we just have to work harder. It’s a mindset, it’s a battle between yourself and no one else and you’ve got to make that mind shift and you have to decide within yourself that you want to put your body on the line for the team. “I’m sure everyone wants to and nobody goes out onto the field wanting to lose or give off their best. We’ve got to work harder for each other, pick up the intensity and start competing with other teams,” Kriel said.