No, you don’t. The reason you don’t know is, I, the taxpayer, ensure your five wives (I think, - I have lost track) and children (quite frankly I don’t know how many children as I have lost count) are well-nourished and well-fed on the finest foods the culinary world has to offer. Mr Zuma, do you know how it feels to worry about how you and your family are going to afford transport during the last week of the month when fuel and public transport costs have increased once again? No you don’t. The reason you don’t know is, I, the taxpayer, pay for a luxury fleet of vehicles with an additional security entourage and personal chauffeurs to ferry not only yourself, but also your five wives and their children. Mr Zuma, do you know how it feels to worry about driving home from work or using public transport in the dark and wondering if today is the day you will once again be beaten and robbed of your belongings? No, you don’t. The reason you don’t know is, I, the taxpayer, pay for a full security escort to ensure your safety at all times. Mr Zuma, do you know how it feels to spend sleepless nights worrying about your children’s future? Worrying if the education that your government provides will equip them well enough to pursue and achieve their dreams? No, you don’t. The reason you don’t know is, I, the taxpayer, pay for your children to attend the finest private schools the country has to offer with world-class facilities. Mr Zuma, do you know how it feels to be racked with guilt knowing your elderly relative who is desperately ill, is standing all day in a long queue for over nine hours waiting to receive the medication that will ensure they live another day, only to find out the medication is out of stock and that your elderly sick relative will have to return the following day for another day of standing in unending pain? No, you don’t. The reason you don’t know is, I, the taxpayer, pay for your wives, children and probably many many others on your “family payroll” to attend the best private hospitals and to receive the best medical care the country has to offer. Mr Zuma, do you know how it feels to be a pensioner or disabled with no income and reliant on the goodwill of others and a measly social grant that needs to be used to support several people? No, you don’t. The reason you don’t know is, I, the taxpayer, pay for these social grants that I do not even myself receive. Mr Zuma, do you know how it feels for your blood to run cold when your daughter or wife does not answer their phone for a few hours or has not returned from work? Do you know how it feels for your breath to escape your lungs wondering if their body is lying in a ditch having been raped and murdered and left like unwanted refuse on the side of the road? No, you don’t. The reason is I, the taxpayer, pay for 24-hour security for yourself, your wives and children, enabling you to rest well and be assured of their safety at all times. Mr Zuma, you are a morally bankrupt, incompetent leader who has no purpose in this world other than self-enrichment. You and your leadership will be studied by scholars for generations to come.  The reason however will not be one of glory, admiration and respect. You will be studied alongside other corrupt leaders and remembered with despair, frustration and sadness. You will be remembered as the president who, in less than a decade, destroyed not only the economy of our beautiful South Africa, but also the spirit of her people. When your religious leaders laid hands on you recently, praying for you, did they also remind you that you will one day answer for your actions? I have a suggestion for you - pack sunscreen.  I am led to believe it can get rather hot where you are going. Lisa M Hold, Rietfontein