The school had not paid rent to the landlords for the building it occupied in Johannes Ramokhoase Street and has now been evicted, leaving pupils in limbo and unsure of their educational future. They had been locked out of the school premises without a word from school officials. In addition, there was no communication between pupils, the school management and parents regarding the problems. Frustrated Grade 12 pupils said the situation was a waste of their time. “We have to write our exams soon, but how are we going to pass when we are not studying and our books are locked inside the building?” said one pupil. The pupils said they were disappointed by the situation and the fact that there was no proper communication on what was happening. “This is our future. I don’t want to write my exams next year; I want to be in varsity,” said one. The pupils said they had been instructed to attend classes at another independent school last week, but stopped when that arrangement did not work. “There were too many of us in every class; we do not do some of the subjects they offered there and some that we do are not done there,” another pupil said. That they were squashed into classrooms made matters worse. “You can’t even hear the teachers there because of the noise,” she said. Another pupil said teachers at the school only concentrated on their own pupils and neglected them. He said being at the school was the same as being at home. “I asked for a transfer letter and my first-term report but the principal just ignored me." Parents said they were extremely worried by the situation and their children’s future. One said the school’s directors only officially announced the closure yesterday. They offered that the pupils go to the school they had rejected, but that would not work out, she said. “That (neighbouring) school, it does not even look like a place of study, it is filthy with small classrooms." She said they were told that the school owed the landlord R2million, hence the eviction. “We are not happy because we have paid school fees for the whole year and they tell us they do not have money. Rumour has it that the director used our money on gambling,” she said. The Department of Education said it was aware of the situation at Berea Park School. “It has been established that the institution's directors did not pay rent and were evicted. The institution did not inform the learners or parents,” said acting spokesperson Oupa Bodibe. All Grade 12 pupils were sent to a neighbouring school while the district developed a catch-up plan for all affected pupils. "The matter has been escalated to our Independent School Directorate for further investigation." School management could not be reached for comment.