Moon, 64, is expected to beat conservative challenger, former prosecutor Hong Joon-pyo, by 41.4% to 23.3% of the votes, exit polls conducted jointly by three network television stations showed. A decisive win by Moon would end months of political turmoil stemming from a parliamentary vote in December to impeach former President Park Geun-hye over an extensive corruption scandal. The Constitutional Court upheld her impeachment in March, making her the first democratically elected leader to be removed from office and triggering a snap election to choose her successor. Moon has told his party he would push for reform and national unity if he was confirmed as the next president. A Gallup Korea poll last week showed Moon had 38% support in a field of 13 candidates. Moon is expected to be sworn in today after the National Election Commission releases the official result. Most candidates, including Moon, have said they would skip a lavish inauguration ceremony and start work straight away. The new leader is expected to quickly name a prime minister, who will need parliamentary approval, and main cabinet positions, including national security and finance ministers, which do not need parliamentary confirmation. Moon’s victory was bolstered by strong support from younger people, the majority of whom voted for him, according to the exit polls. Many of his supporters participated in big, peaceful weekend rallies over the last few months of 2016 and early this year, demanding Park step down. Moon, whose campaign promises include a “National Interest First” policy, has struck a chord with people who want the country to stand up to powerful allies and neighbours. He wrote in a book published in January that South Korea should learn to say “no to America”. Moon favours dialogue with North Korea to ease rising tensions over its accelerating nuclear and missile programme. He also wants to reform powerful family-run conglomerates, such as Samsung and Hyundai, and boost fiscal spending to create jobs. Moon, who narrowly lost to Park in the 2012 presidential election, has criticised the two former conservative governments for failing to stop North Korea’s weapons development. He advocates a two-track policy of dialogue while maintaining pressure and sanctions to encourage change. The election is being closely watched by allies and neighbours at a time of high tension over North Korea’s accelerating development of weapons since it conducted its fourth nuclear test in January last year. It conducted a fifth test in September and is believed ready for another. Moon said in a YouTube live stream yesterday that South Korea should take on a more active diplomatic role to curb North Korea’s nuclear threat and not watch idly as the US and China talk to each other. His election could complicate the deployment of a US  Terminal High Altitude Area Defence (Thaad) anti-missile system, which the former Seoul government and the US military agreed last year to deploy in South Korea as defence against North Korean missiles. Moon, a human rights lawyer and former student activist, has said the next administration should have the final say on whether to deploy the system. Many conservatives worry he will revert to former liberal governments’ policy of promoting economic ties with North Korea, which they say helped fund its weapons development, undermining the crucial alliance with Washington.