The Royal Embassy of Saudi Arabia expresses its concerns about the inaccuracies in the article, in a deliberate distortion of an important political event involving two countries with strong ties with the Republic of South Africa. In response to the false allegations by Essa, the Embassy would like to clarify the following: The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia was among the first countries in the world that voiced and provided support for human rights and offered respect to all international charters in accordance with Islamic Sharia law that guarantee human rights, and protect his/her blood, money, honour and dignity. Also to protect women’s rights through issuance of a number of regulations and legislations. Although such efforts were clear and made available to individuals, organisations and states, some human rights-related reports and some countries and individuals which try to build fake situations through emptying the contents of human rights from their noble significance and politicising them, have opted to neglect the cultural and religious privacy of individuals and nations and instead, attack their basic rights and, using a double standard, close an eye towards the religious and cultural identities of others. With regard to the allegation that the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia refuses to register legal, human rights or civil organisations and reduces the women rights, we would like to explain the following: A number of civil rights organisations are currently operating in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and practising their  activities in absolute freedom, led by the Council of the Saudi Human Rights Commission, which has six women in its membership. The Commission has the right to receive complaints from citizens and residents; and investigates these complaints by visiting prisons and other government institutions and defends all their rights. Regarding women's rights, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia has worked in setting and amending the rules and legislations that enable women to increase their participation in developing the society. The most prominent results of these legislations is that women are currently occupying nearly one-third of the seats at the Shura Council (Parliament). Moreover, women were granted the right to run for elections in the local councils on equal footing with men. The percentage of participation of women in the last election has reached 85%. The percentage of Saudi women in various education phases was about 65%, surpassing the men in that field. Further, the percentage of females in the scholarship programme for studying overseas, which has benefited 145 000 male and female students, is high. A number of female students have excelled in their fields of studies and achieved useful discoveries to the humanity, in fields of medicine, pharmacology, chemistry and the other fields of scientific research. Some of those female students were honoured by the heads of states in which they were studying. The percentage of women participation in business has increased. The number of enterprises owned by Saudi women reached 267446 enterprises last year. The percentage of women ownership of private projects has reached 19.2%; and the loans granted to women from the state for female business projects reached 21% last year. The reality of women in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the progress they reached in the various arenas demonstrates, without any doubt, that there’s no systematic restrictions (legal) imposed that infringe the rights of women in movement and choice of place to live. The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia has been in the forefront of combating terrorism, those that support terrorism and all forms of terror financing, working in close co-operation with countries around the world, including the US. Saudi Arabia and a coalition of regional allies carried out operation “Decisive Storm” in response to requests for assistance from the internationally recognised and democratically elected Yemeni government of President Abdrabbuh Mansour Hadi. This was to defend and support the legitimate government of Yemen and prevent the radical Houthi rebels from taking over the country, because of their crimes against the Yemeni people and their attack on the legitimacy of their government will pose a threat to security and stability in the region. Saudi Arabia called for the implementation of the UN Security Council’s resolution adopted number 2216 in April 2015 to provide a framework for resolving the war in Yemen, and sanctions the Houthis and their ally, former President Ali Abdullah Salih, and demands the withdrawal of their forces from the capital Sana'a and the reinstatement of the government of President Hadi. The UN has accused Houthi fighters and their allies of blocking the delivery of humanitarian supplies. Houthi forces have also been accused of firing rockets at civilian areas, blockading rival territories and murdering thousands of political rivals. The coalition is the largest provider of humanitarian assistance to Yemen, including medical supplies. Saudi Arabia alone has provided more than $8billion (R106bn) in humanitarian aid (from April 2015 to April 2017), making it the largest single provider of humanitarian assistance to Yemen. Wafa AlNafjan, Second Secretary Royal Embassy of Saudi Arabia * The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media.