Police are hunting for a possible bomb-maker after the 22-year-old attacker, British-born Salman Abedi, detonated a sophisticated device at a concert venue packed with children on Monday night, killing 22 people and injuring 64. As the situation remained tense in Manchester, police were responding to a call at a college in the Trafford area. Army bomb disposal experts had arrived at the college. The decision to stop sharing police information with US agencies was an extraordinary step as Britain sees the US as its closest ally on security and intelligence. “This is until such time as we have assurances that no further unauthorised disclosures will occur,” said the counter-terrorism source, who spoke on condition of anonymity. The official threat level was raised after the Manchester attack to “critical”, its highest level, meaning a further attack could be imminent. Troops have been deployed to free up police officers for patrols. After a series of police raids in and around Manchester, eight people are in custody in connection with the suicide bombing. One of them is Abedi’s brother but police have not confirmed that. Abedi’s father and younger brother were arrested in Tripoli in Libya, the family's original home. Manchester’s police chief said Abedi was part of a network, and the media reported authorities suspect he received help constructing the bomb and planning the attack. Police chiefs have made clear they are furious about the publication of confidential material in US media, including bomb site photographs in the New York Times, saying such leaks undermined relationships with trusted security allies. “This damage is even greater when it involves unauthorised disclosure of potential evidence in the middle of a major counter-terrorism investigation,” a National Counter Terrorism Policing spokesman said. British Prime Minister Theresa May  was to raise the issue with US President Donald Trump at a Nato summit in Brussels yesterday. The pictures published by the New York Times included remains of the bomb, the rucksack carried by the suicide bomber, and showed blood stains amid the wreckage. The Financial Times reported that such images are available across a restricted-access encrypted special international database used by government ordnance and explosives experts in about 20 countries allied with Britain. It said the database was built around a longstanding US-British system. The BBC said Manchester police hoped to resume normal intelligence relationships soon but were furious about the leaks. Britain routinely shares intelligence with the US bilaterally, and also as part of the “Five Eyes” network which also includes Australia, Canada and New Zealand