Washington - Summer is nearing, and workplaces everywhere are awaiting
the arrival of this year's interns to help out on extra projects and shoulder
the seasonal load. But among certain companies, they're likely doing more than
getting coffee and making copies. Or at least, they're being paid that way. According to a new report by the jobs site Glassdoor, the 25
best-paying companies for internships each pay their median summer worker more
than $4 500 a month. That amount, if it was paid over the course of a full
year, would be north of $54 000, exceeding the median annual pay for a US
worker, according to Glassdoor's own local pay reports ($51,350), and the
annual figure calculated from the Bureau of Labour Statistics' latest weekly
earnings data for full-time wage and salary workers ($44,460). Topping the list was Facebook, where the median pay for
interns is $8 000 a month, according to the reports from the newest analysis.
That's $1 800 more than the $6 200 the social media giant reportedly paid
interns when Glassdoor last issued its last highest paying internship report,
in 2014. The next three were Microsoft (which pays a median $7 100 a month);
ExxonMobil ($6 507) and Salesforce ($6 450). Interns are "doing real work with real deadlines and
very high expectations," said Scott Dobroski, Glassdoor's community
expert, in an interview. "But they're getting hired at a level that's much
more than the average US worker." Glassdoor's analysis is culled from self-reported salary
numbers offered by current or recent interns (those who have completed an
internship within the past year) and includes only companies that have at least
25 reports. Dobroski notes that the numbers are median sought after engineering
interns with specialised skills likely make more than summer workers in the
marketing department and that the more limited differences between experience
levels and job categories for interns allow for the smaller sample size. Among the top 25, the list remains heavily technology
focused, with 16 of the top 25 in tech or tech-related fields, along with
finance, oil and gas, and consulting firms. At all but three of the 16
companies that made repeat appearances from 2014, the median pay went up,
sometimes sizably, with seven seeing percentage increases of 10 percent or
more. (Emails to
representatives from the top four companies to confirm Glassdoor's numbers were
not immediately returned or declined to confirm the data.) Some firms well known for high summer pay investment banks,
say, or law firms might not be represented if there are not enough salary
reports from interns to meet the sample size, Dobroski said. That was the case
with firms such as Goldman Sachs or Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom,
he said. Geography also plays a role: Companies with large employee populations
in big coastal cities, such as Bloomberg (No. 7) or the many tech firms on the
list, end up paying more, even to interns. Read also : Youth must seize all job opportunities "Part of it is definitely driven by geography," he
said. "More than half of them are headquartered in the San Francisco Bay
Area or New York." Dobroski says Glassdoor does not have data on whether the
lawsuits in recent years over paid versus unpaid internships or the general
attention paid to that issue may have had an impact on an increase. "But what we see anecdotally and hear from employers
and in policymaking is a push toward paying for interns, as well as guidelines
within companies that they're being treated more like full-time or part-time
employees," he said. "They've no longer just come in for babysitting.
The internship is designed for you to get experience." WASHINGTON POST