The project would see the city prioritising the upgrading of services delivered to informal settlements to improve the quality of life of residents. Mayor Solly Msimanga said the formalisation of informal settlements included planning, water provision, stand piping and installing sewers for pit latrines. The informal settlements would be upgraded to fully serviced stands, with some provided with bulk infrastructure. These settlements are in Kudube, Refilwe Manor, Themba View, Olievenhoutbosch, Zithobeni Heights, Zithobeni and Mabopane. A total of R40million has been put aside to finalise the planning and detailed designs for the informal settlements in Mahube, Atteridgeville, Itireleng, Hammanskraal West and Mabopane Extension 11. “The city is committed to providing sustainable and integrated human settlements that are accessible and liveable, and that have adequate access to economic opportunities, a mix of safe and secure housing and tenure types, reliable and affordable basic services and social amenities,” Msimanga said. He criticised the previous administration for failing to make better provision for basic services in informal settlements. Most of the informal settlements have no access to rudimentary basic services, the mayor said. Msimanga said the city had been allocated Human Settlements Development grant funding of R90m in 2017/18 to construct 1000 top structures. Structures would cater for various typologies and tenure options such as subsidised low-cost housing, gap market and affordable rental accommodation. A total of 2300 stands will be connected to water and 1350 to sewer. “Furthermore, provision has been made on the operating budget for an amount of R106m.” Msimanga said the Human Settlement Department would receive an allocation of R874m in the 2017/18 budget. “The city will invest R480m over the medium term on the rudimentary basic services, to begin addressing the often undignified sanitary conditions.” Msimanga said the city would not be able to fix all sanitation woes in the medium term, but said it was the priority of his government to do so. “The City of Tshwane has made provision in its draft IDP 2017/18 for the formalisation of seven informal settlements. “This project will henceforth be known as Project Tirane,” he said. Msimanga said work had already started in these areas, with a budget allocation of R473.5m. An amount of R310m has been set aside for the provision of  bulk infrastructure. “The work includes the provision of bulk water and sewer connections, roads and stormwater system and water reticulation networks and electrification of households.” Msimanga said his administration had inherited a sanitation crisis in the city’s informal settlements. “As a first step to addressing this issue the city is planning a sanitation audit. “The purpose of the audit is to get a clear picture of how serious each informal settlement’s sanitation situation is - including its impact or potential impact on the health of residents.”  