This bizarre use of a human shield by the army officer kicked up a storm. Retired generals thought the episode was a blot on the good name of the Indian forces; Hindu nationalists supported by the government, backed the erring official. These extreme measures to tackle stone-pelters paid no dividends. Barely 2% of the populace voted in the polls - a body blow to India’s independent Election Commission and also the populist government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi that promised to stabilise the trouble-torn state through tough measures and quality governance. In the three years of this government, hope has given way to despair among the people of the Kashmir valley. To the chagrin of many who supported the Hindu nationalist BJP, to find an enduring solution to the Kashmir issue, there has been a worrisome hardening of positions in the central government since the ruling party won resoundingly in the state of Uttar Pradesh. The BJP read this as a mandate to carry on with its tough policy towards Kashmir. A narrative built by the BJP government through a pliant media that showed the security forces as victims of violence of the stone pelters-plebeians who were irrational and needed to be suppressed. There were also suggestions in the media that India follow the policies of the Israelis when it came to taming angry Palestinians in Gaza and the West Bank. So much vitriol was expended on the Kashmiris that many in the social media insanely demanded that the “Mother of all Bombs” (MOAB) that was used by the US Air Force against the Islamic State be dropped on the Kashmir valley as well. The immediate outcome of this hate, besides abusive trolling against all those who seek balance and circumspection, is the violence faced by Kashmiri students, who are forced to study in different parts of the country due to the prevailing instability in their state. In Rajasthan, which is also ruled by a BJP government, Kashmiri students studying in a university were roughed up and forced to return home. There are scores of incidents that get unreported where muscular nationalism is violently flaunted against these people. In the city of Meerut, not too far away from the capital, Delhi, large hoardings threatening Kashmiris to return home came up over night. They were quickly pulled down, but there is little guarantee that the Kashmiris would not be targeted by these Hindu hotheads. To the credit of the central government, instructions were passed to state authorities that the Kashmiris should be protected, but the implementation of such orders in the past has been too lackadaisical to inspire confidence. The police in many states that were not previously ruled by Hindu nationalists are getting used to the new reality where the vigilantes and fire-breathing cow protectors call the shots. In some cities of UP, when the police tried to resist cow vigilantes they were beaten up. Slowly the police are getting used to the new normal where vigilantes rule the streets and decide on how the “enemies of the Hindu state” need to be dealt with. In Kashmir, the government is faced with stone-pelting by not just regular protesters, but also female students from relatively elite schools. Images of them covering their faces and letting stones fly towards the hooded cops have gone viral. State police feel the trouble in the valley is aggravated by social media and have shut down the internet and all kinds of messaging applications. Only Instagram has survived in the long list of banned apps. Recently, the Chief Minister of the state of Jammu and Kashmir Mehbooba Mufti was in Delhi and promised Modi that she would try to restore peace in the valley in the next few months. She wanted a commitment from the premier that he would allow her to announce talks with all sides (including separatists), but Modi reportedly declined this suggestion. Unlike the former premier, Atal Behari Vajpayee, he feels agreeing to speak with separatists is an expression of the weakness of the government. He believes his image will soar among his vast legion of supporters if he walks his tough talk. That means tough times for the people of Kashmir, who don’t really know what to expect. Old-timers here have horrifying memories of disappearances, midnight knocks and torture by state agencies and the criminal excesses by “freedom fighters” who had been infiltrated into Kashmir from Pakistan. This time around, there are fewer infiltrators and the uprising is largely indigenous. Many of those demanding liberation or azadi from India are disgusted with the cycle of violence resulting in a slowdown of the economy and poor quality of governance. The people here resent the presence of the security forces that are about half a million in number. It is an embarrassingly huge number for the Indian state, but security experts fear that the next war with Pakistan would again be fought over this fabled valley. US permanent representative to the UN, Nikki Haley, hinted that President Donald Trump was ready to mediate if the relationship between the two countries worsened. India has rejected this offer, but the pace at which ties between the two neighbours are declining, especially after a Pakistani court announced a death sentence on an alleged Indian spy, nothing can be ruled out. * Kapoor is an Independent Media part-time writer and also Editor of the publication Hard News in India.