“We cannot have a situation where we perpetuate what the apartheid system did, where the haves live around the city and the have-nots on the outskirts; where you have people coming into the centre to work and having to spend three-quarters of their salary to go back to where they came from. “This is perpetuated in building RDP homes further and further away, such as in Hammanskraal, Winterveld and Bronkhorstpruit, which also puts a strain on infrastructure and transport. About 60 percent of the people from the northern part of the city are employed in the city or southern part. “ What the city wants to do is bring people closer to the economic activities of the city, to create liveable spaces close to the city and an inclusive city.  On focus on small business “The economy of the city is not going to grow on the back of big business, it is going to grow on the back of small business. When we talk about manufacturing ...we must make sure we do not have people taking money from Africa, going to China, and coming back with something to sell. Rather, we must create markets so that you are able to take whatever small goods you have been able to produce and sell them. “We must go about it differently (and) have a situation where we develop what the world wants to buy. Empowerment is not buying polish at Makro and selling it on, but in learning how to make that polish and then selling it.”  On health services The city is in a predicament because it wants to deliver services and sees the needs that people have around the availability of health facilities, yet there are parts of the system the city doesn’t control. Of the metros in Gauteng, Tshwane gets the least when it comes to provincial funding for health. It is a partner for the NHI (National Health Insurance) pilot, but without the necessary money that goes with implementing it. The city is cautiously piloting 24-hour clinics as it wants to bring health services closer to the people. The mayor told of a woman he met in Winterveld who broke his heart: she had to take two taxis to collect her chronic medication and two home, yet sometimes it was not available when she got there. He spoke too of discussions with an embassy around the provision of mobile clinic facilities for those in outlying areas.  On mega projects The mayor said he could “stand and give a lot of stories of projects that this administration will embark on, but that will never be realised”, but he was not going to be a mayor who “comes and makes pronouncements without having done proper checks. I will come here and tell people what is realistically achievable,” he said referring to Tshwane House and how what was budgeted for and what it looked like initially and today were “two different things”. When the city signs a Public Private Partnership (PPP) and before he announces it, he wants to know that whoever is coming on board has the resources and capacity to see the project to fruition. Referring to Symbio City in Centurion, he said “people say we want to build this marvellous thing  but then you go and find out if they have the capacity, the finances, and if they have done their homework”.  On land Occupying land is an illegal act. The plan is to identify pieces of open land the city can procure, declare a township and provide services such as water, electricity, toilets and roads before moving people from informal settlements and then developing that land, so creating a domino effect. But those who occupy land earmarked for development, creating a domino effect which disrupts the process and makes it impossible for the council to formalise informal settlements.  On Caledonian Stadium “We are not going to use public funds to revamp it and let it be an asset of a particular club (Arcadia Shepherds). Caledonian remains the property of the city and needs to be accessible and enjoyed by all members of the public who wish to use it.” Arcadia club will still have a stake in terms of their historical attachment, but it cannot be that they will dictate how it would be developed and who should be allowed in that particular space, he said.  On the opposition “We are trying to do things and it is getting better,” says the mayor, who believes a period of “mourning” was needed by the ANC. There was an element trying to ensure the DA-led council did not get to do what it needs to do, he said, citing the example those who blocked trucks from going to Soshanguve to collect rubbish. But it was about communication and imbizos with communities would continue. His plea to opposition councillors was that it was residents who should be the winners, not one or other political party.  “There is a difference between being opposition and being destructive”, he said. (Extracts from the mayor’s live comments during a panel discussion on Friday have been edited for ease of reading).