The Nakba (catastrophe in Arabic) on May 15 commemorates the 69th anniversary of when 750 000 Palestinians were displaced following the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948. Simultaneously, as about 1 300 Palestinian political prisoners entered the 29th day of a hunger strike to protest their harsh prison conditions, Palestinian ire mounted. “All the medical staff had their leave and breaks cancelled as we were expecting the injured to flood into the casualty ward with gunshot wounds,” Ameen Al Teel, a nurse at Ramallah Hospital’s emergency department told ANA from Ramallah in the West Bank. “I’m very ill with a fever and was meant to be on sick leave but the situation was urgent with mass protests expected. “As a result, I had to go in and help with the wounded,” said Al Teel. Both Hamas and Fatah, the two main political factions, called on their supporters to confront Israeli security forces at various strategic positions across the West Bank to mark Nakba Day - and to draw attention to the deteriorating health of the hunger strikers. Imprisoned senior Fatah official, and organiser of the mass hunger strike, Marwan Barghouti was visited by his lawyer Khader Shqeirat on Sunday for the first time since he began refusing food. Barghouti appeared gaunt, having lost 12kg since beginning the strike, and reported to Shqueirat that he had been held under deplorable conditions in an attempt by Israelis to break his will. These included being held in a basement cell for four days from which he was only removed after he stopped drinking water. According to Shqueirat, his cell is infested with insects, he has no access to books and has only one blanket. Barghouti has also complained of being subjected to loud noise for several hours a day. Other reported oppressive moves by the Israel Prison Services have included regular raids on the cells of the hunger strikers who have been placed in solitary confinement, beatings, the confiscation of personal items, including Qur’ans and clothing, and continued forced removals to other prisons. Barghouti was also visited by a delegation from the International Committee of the Red Cross on Thursday. However, the organisation only passed on messages to his family without discussing his conditions as part of their policy to remain politically neutral. Nevertheless, a letter written by Barghouti was smuggled out of prison. In it he urged Palestinians to show solidarity with the prisoners on the anniversary of the Nakba through acts of civil disobedience. The response to his appeal, and to a similar one form Hamas, was almost instantaneous as youths blocked off the entrances to villages and towns and marched on checkpoints set up by the Israel Defence Force across the territory. The acrid smell of teargas mingled with the stench of burning tyres as billowing clouds of black smoke engulfed the blue skies, while the sound of gunshots could be heard at regular intervals, Al Teel told ANA. “We expect the situation to escalate over the next few days,” added Al Teel.