She is facing four counts of crimen injuria in the Randburg Magistrate’s Court. “I’ve watched the video and listened to the recording, and there’s definitely some form of tampering, it’s obviously evident from the video,” Momberg said. “I don’t understand how I could’ve said this. It seems like it’s been exaggerated.” Momberg said she thought the viral footage had been edited because “the video does not flow like a normal video”. However, she said her lawyer, advocate Joe Davidowitz, counselled against that line of argument. Outside court, Davidowitz declined to comment about the alleged tampering. Instead, he emphasised that their defence strategy is “sane automatism”. This is when a person commits a crime under circumstances that make their actions involuntary. This could occur if they were subjected to stress so significant that it inhibits cognitive function. “My client is a victim, too,” Davidowitz said. During testimony, Momberg echoed the sentiment that she was the forgotten victim in this case. “If anyone was affected, I feel sorry for that, but if they knew what I was going through, I hope they’d understand,” Momberg said. “From what I can see from the video, I lashed out really badly. It’s something anybody’s going to do.” When asked if she had used the k-word before, Momberg said: “I don’t think many people use that term. I don’t think it’s something any of my friends or family use on a daily basis. It’s certainly not something I’d use in a social setting.” When pressed if she used the word herself, Momberg said, “definitely not”. Prosecutor Yusuf Baba argued Momberg used the word 48 times that night. “I don’t consider myself a racist,” Momberg said. “I don’t think of this as a racist situation. This was a trauma situation.” Momberg added that when she was employed, most of her clients were people of colour. She said even though  she told police that evening that she did not want a black person near her, she could not recall any other incidents where she had professed a racial preference. The prosecutor then asked Momberg about a similar case in Durban in 2006, when she was charged with and acquitted of crimen injuria. Court testimony from that case alleged that Momberg asked to be assisted only by Indian, white or coloured people while she was at a police station. Momberg said the incident “did not ring a bell”. Momberg paused for almost a full minute before answering her lawyer’s question about the reaction online after the video went viral. Through tears, she recounted rape and death threats, as well as messages about witchdoctors she found particularly disturbing. “People even called me the k-word,” she said. “I understand where it’s coming from.” During testimony about Momberg’s mental state, Baba read from a report submitted by a psychiatrist to the Equality Court. He said the report made it clear that Momberg “was at the time of the offence able to differentiate right from wrong”. Momberg said Baba was misconstruing the report, and implied that she wanted the doctor to testify. Her lawyer seemed to disagree, and court adjourned for Momberg and Davidowitz to discuss their strategy. The trial resumes on Thursday.