When it was established 10 years ago, the sanctum aimed at relieving the community of the high numbers of sick children who could not be absorbed by the Tshwane Place of Safety which was forced to turn children away due to the sheer numbers. The haven now served as a support structure to the Place of Safety, manager and house mother Karen Bruyere said. She said they believed the children could be helped to lead a good quality of life even if for a short period of time. The haven offers specialist care to babies and toddlers with medical problems, and it also doubles as a hospice for children in need, among other commitments. Bruyere volunteered to look after the children at the home in 1996, and yesterday she said she had never left. “I was diagnosed with cancer, so I told myself that I was going to give back to the community and have been doing so for 21 years now,” she said. She said the haven opened its doors on May 30, 2006, during the worst nursing strike in memory and has gone from strength to strength. The haven has been approved by the Department of Health to take in 30 children and currently it is home to 16. The home caters for children born prematurely up to those aged 16. “We accommodate severely malnourished children, children with HIV/Aids, TB, Down’s syndrome, abused children, premature babies and also those with heart and lung problems among others,” said Bruyere. But like many other organisations, the home has challenges. “Among our biggest challenges are finances and access to specialists to care for the children,” she said. So a pledge of R10 000 every day and products from Dis-Chem for the year was welcome relief. Their shelves will be stocked with necessities like medication, nappies and cosmetics. “We are going to help you with the everyday products that you need, they will come from Dis-Chem pharmacies,” Dis-Chem Foundation managing director and founder Lynette Saltzman said. The haven has looked after 347 children since it was opened. Bruyere said governmental hospitals and clinics were helpful in aiding children, but assistance from specialists and doctors remained a big requirement. The haven is in the process of registering as a Child and Youth Care Centre through the Department of Social Development.