“Today, on May 1, I announce that I will use my presidential privileges as constitutional head of state in accordance with article 347, to convene the original constituent power so that the working class and the people can call a national constituent assembly,” President Maduro said on Monday. The Venezuelan leader invoked article 347 of the Bolivarian Constitution, which allows for the convening of a national constituent assembly with the purpose of “transforming the state”. “I call a constituent assembly that will be profoundly communal, from the working class, from the people,” he added. The surprise announcement comes on the heels of weeks of protests called by opposition parties which have led to violence, claiming the lives of more than two dozen people and wounding more than 400 others, while causing significant damage to public infrastructure and buildings including hospitals and schools, as well as small businesses which have been looted. Venezuela’s current 1999 or Bolivarian constitution, was the outcome of Hugo Chavez’s election promise to rewrite the country’s Magna Carta with the participation of Venezuelan society. The constitution is widely regarded as one of the most progressive in the world, not only enshrining broad social rights to the population, but also creating space for the population to directly intervene in political decision-making beyond elections. According to the constitution, the constituent assembly would be comprised of 500 members, directly elected by Venezuelans. Additionally, a number of candidates for these positions would be put forward by sectoral organisations, including student groups, unions, campesino (peasant farmer) organisations as well as private sector interests. The Venezuelan leader emphasised that this step would be an important measure to overcome the current political conflicts in the country. “I don’t want a civil war,” Maduro concluded. “Do you want dialogue? Constituent power! Do you want peace? Constituent power!” Nonetheless, opposition leader Henrique Capriles opposed the move, calling it a “coup”. “We alert the democratic governments of the world, international public opinion, Maduro consolidates a coup d’etat and deepens the serious crisis!” Capriles tweeted after Maduro’s announcement. According to constitutional expert Hernan Escarra, while the constituent process is under way, the country’s current political institutions would continue operating. Last Thursday, Venezuela announced it would begin the process of withdrawing from the OAS, after repeated attempts by OAS head Luis Almagro to sanction the country under the organisation’s Democratic Charter. Almagro has also been chided by Venezuelan officials and diplomats from other Latin American and Caribbean countries for his open support to Venezuela’s opposition groups and leaders, including his unprecedented step in calling for general elections in Venezuela before next year’s date.