Brigadier Hannes Swart served his country since he was 16, up until 60, but he feels it is now time to make way for the younger generation. “It is very emotional to hand over my duties, but the time has come to step down. It is time for fresh and new ideas from the younger generation to take the SAPS forward and to have 
new ideas. The SAPS is not a one- man show, everyone has to work together.” If Swart could have had his way when he was a 16-year-old teenager, he would have become an artisan. But today he is happy about his “forced”  choice and proud to have served his country. He retired as component head of organisational development at the SAPS headquarters in 
Pretoria. During his long career he obtained  various degrees, but it was in fact his lack of academic perseverance which caused him to end up in the SAPS in the first place. As a young man of 16, he joined the police on December 27, 1973. “I failed the now Grade 11 and my father, also a policeman, said this was it. He told me I had to quit school and join the SAPS.” Swart was too young to go to police college at the time, as recruits had to be 18. He worked in Bloemfontein as a lackey to everyone, before, in 1995, he went to the Railway Police College in Kempton Park. In 1982, he obtained his matric through a correspondence course and he has not looked back since. He obtained various degrees along the way, with his highest qualification being an honours in public administration. Other qualifications included a national diploma in police science where he mastered various law subjects. This was of such interest to him that he did a prosecutor’s course at the Department of Justice in Pretoria during 1984. His law knowledge, Swart said, equipped him to assist with a lot of court cases. “These were proud moments, especially as we won several cases as the prosecution while acting against senior advocates.” While Swart was in many dangerous situations during his lifetime as a policeman, it was especially so during the 1980s when he served as an explosive expert and he feared for his life. He had to defuse limpet mines on railway tracks. While it was Swart’s passion to serve his country he had to make several sacrifices regarding his family time. If it was not for his family’s understanding of his work, he could have never done it. Swart’s commander, Major-General Jack Makgato, only has the highest praise for him. They have worked together since 2011. “He has helped to ensure that the SAPS is run as a well-oiled machine - both at national and regional level. He is a warm and polite person and he has a lot of insight into the running of the force.” Makgato said Swart’s level of knowledge and experience will be difficult to replace. Long standing friend, Major-General Leon Rabie, who has worked with Swart for the past 20 years, said the brigadier was known to him as "Uncle Hannes", despite his rank. One of the lighter moments he recalled was when Swart asked him and a colleague to do some research on the Sun Conure - a species of birds. Swart had received two as a gift and had no idea what they ate or how they should be treated. “We gave him the traits of a vulture as a joke. "He became very worried and phoned his wife to ensure that she kept the cage closed, as we told him they eat meat and attack people.” Rabie said swart leaving the SAPS would leave a big gap, as he knew the organisation and has the institutional knowledge and wisdom. “This is not something you can obtain in books. This is something you acquire over the years,” Rabie said.