PROVINCIAL education authorities are investigating claims by staff that Clapham High School principal Henning Pieters paid himself additional salaries and embezzled thousands of rand with few repercussions. The head of the Pretoria school has also been accused of discrimination by some teachers, the school governing body and parents, especially after the election process for the new deputy principal.Various governing body members, who wished to remain anonymous, said the principal did not want a black person taking the deputy post.The Tshwane North District had given Clapham High School a list of 30 candidates for the deputy principal post, they said. After sifting and shortlisting the candidates nominated by the governing body, it was down to three candidates of which two were black. We elected one of the black males who was also head of department at the school for deputy principal, said a governing body member, requesting anonymity.The chosen candidate had been working at the school for years and knew the rich culture and history of the school, in addition to meeting all the other requirements, the official said. But, he and his colleagues said Pieters manipulated the Tshwane North District into overruling the governing body s preferred candidate for the deputy principal post.The governing body claimed that Pieters advised some of the candidates to appeal against the process, citing deviation from shortlisting criteria.Aggrieved members claimed the Tshwane North District continued to protect the principal. Pieters is a well-known and popular guy at the Tshwane North District, and is involved with a lot of work for the department. &quot;He is an examiner and internal moderator for geography, another member said.The Pretoria News has seen a letter written by chairperson, Professor Dineo Tladi, to the Tshwane North District. The letter, directed to district director Shirley Molobi, requested further clarification on the shortlisting criteria and discrimination criteria for the selection. The letter stated that the selection committee deviated from its own shortlisting criteria, in that some of the candidates were incorrectly scored. &quot;Kindly supply us with the details of the deviations (the difference between what was supposed to have been and what was actually done), the letter stated.The letter said that the criteria used were discriminatory, in that advantage was given to candidates who were currently teaching at Clapham High School. However, there was no mention as to whether the discrimination was at the shortlisting or interview stage of the candidates. Kindly specify in more detail the specific cases where discrimination was exercised (what was supposed to have been done or needs to be done) to rectify the anomaly.&quot;The Tshwane North District has not replied to the letter, dated April 18. The disgruntled parties reported the principal to Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi, over allegations of racism and money laundering, and yesterday they said no action had yet been taken.There are claims that hundreds of thousands of rand had disappeared with no accountability since Pieters took over, more than seven years ago. For many years, internal auditors have done the books and submitted them without external auditors checking them.&quot;They said they had recently appointed an external auditor to study the accounts details.&quot;Gauteng Education Department spokesperson Oupa Bodibe said they viwed the allegations in a &quot;serious light&quot;. &quot;An investigation is under way. The department has adopted a zero-tolerance approach to fraud and corruption in schools around the province. Complaints of this nature are investigated immediately and appropriate action is taken.&quot;