The Capital Menlyn Maine is a 200-room “apartment hotel” ideally located in the multi-billion rand, 315000m2 Menlyn Maine precinct, South Africa’s first mixed-use green city and, for that reason alone, it is a good choice if you’re in Tshwane working or playing. The first thing you notice when you walk into one of its funkily decorated rooms is that there’s a spacious kitchenette in the suite, equipped with a dishwasher and washing machine. That’s because this is no ordinary hotel, but an “apartment hotel”, a place you can book into for weeks, or months if you like, with your entire family. In other words, “apartment hotels” combine a hotel room with a self-catering residential apartment. They are one of the fastest-growing sectors in hotel accommodation in the world, comprising about 9% of hotel accommodation worldwide and only about 2% in South Africa, with The Capital Hotel Group commanding about 75% of the local industry. Capital Hotel Group MD, Marc Wachsberger, says his is currently the fastest-growing hotel chain in South Africa, in “direct response to the ever-increasing demand for the apartment/hotel-style accommodation”. The Capital hotels boast an average occupancy rate of 80%, which is well above the 55% average occupancy rate for local hotels. Being adjoined by walkways to Menlyn Maine, an outdoorsy, pedestrian-friendly shopping centre built around a piazza with great restaurants like Tashas, Turn *  Tender, and Soy, The Capital Menlyn Maine has a European city feel. And it’s refreshing to not have to get in the car to go anywhere. Gaming is the big drawcard here, however, as the new Sun International Time Square casino is directly across the road. In fact, if you open your curtains in a north-facing room, you can see the criss-cross of blue neon lights covering the casino facade, inviting you to come and take your chances. Time Square is the second-largest casino in South Africa, home to 2 000 slot machines and 60 game tables, and it also features 18 new restaurants and bars, each with a different concept, to diversify the visitor’s experience. On the upper level are two famous chef eateries, being Forti Grill & Bar created by Fortunato Mazzone, and Guy Fieri’s Kitchen and Bar. The next phase of the casino project includes a state-of-the-art arena with 8 500 seats, to be completed in November, and this will be followed by phase three 
next year with the Maslow Time Square hotel. Shopping is another popular activity in Menlyn as, aside from Menlyn Maine with its 50 hand-picked retailers, the nearby Menlyn Park Mall boasts over 500 shops, including international brands like Zara, Hamley’s toy store and H&M clothing. Gym bunnies are also catered for, as Menlyn Maine also houses Pretoria’s first Virgin Classic gym, while kids can spend hours in the Bounce trampoline park, or at the movies in Menlyn Park Mall. As for the suites of The Capital Menlyn Maine, they are pretty much all you need kitchenette, good-sized lounge with TV, wi-fi, comfortable bedroom with a great bed. And, for once, there is more than enough space in the bathroom for two. There is even a wash basket in there, with space to do ironing. The reception is more like a concierge service, so extended stayers can call reception to make a doctor’s or dentist’s appointment, for instance, or arrange for a baby sitter, laundry/cleaning service, daily newspaper delivery, or a taxi. You can also organise extras like a baby cot, towels or more cutlery and crockery. There’s a gym at The Capital Menlyn Maine, and a bar on the first floor adjacent to the swimming pool. For spa treatments, it’s just a short walk to Spa de la Veille in Menlyn Maine. There’s also a conference hub for 300 delegates, so it’s also an ideal place for business meetings. Suffice to say, if you’re in Pretoria for a month or longer, The Capital Menlyn Maine is an ideal place to set up home, as the only time you’ll need your car is when you need to visit clients or hit the N1 highway to somewhere else. *  Prices vary with specials, but a standard room is upwards of R1320 a night. The longer you stay, the lower the nightly rate. Visit: https://thecapital.co.za/hotels/pretoria/menlyn-maine *  The Capital Menlyn Maine is the eighth ‘apartment hotel’ in the Capital Group’s portfolio, which is being expanded by a planned two openings per year, the next being The Capital on the Park in Mushroom Park, Sandton, in October.