Zurich - Swiss watch exports resumed a losing streak in April, hurt
by weakness in the key markets of Hong Kong and the US and weighed down by fewer
working days. Exports slipped 5.7 percent to 1.53 billion francs [$1.57
billion], the Federation of the Swiss Watch Industry said Tuesday. Analysts said shipments gained when adjusted for three fewer
working days in April 2017, with Citigroup estimating a 10 percent gain. Exane
BNP Paribas said shipments probably were up 7 percent to 8 percent, taking that
into account. The industry is searching for signs of recovery after
emerging from its longest consecutively monthly slump on record in
March. Some watchmakers have signaled the worst may be over,
including LVMH watch Chief Jean-Claude Biver, who has forecast Swiss watch
exports will increase this year, and Swatch Group AG Chairwoman Nayla Hayek,
who said Tuesday that 2017 is showing “very promising signals.” Read also: Set watches for growth at Swatch by as much as 9% In contrast, Richemont Chairman Johann Rupert said May 12
the world has too many timepieces. “In spite of the tougher comparison base in April, low
single-digit growth would have been a very good result, while flat would have
been OK, so being slightly down is a little disappointing, but not the end of
the world,” said John Guy, an analyst at MainFirst Bank AG. The decline was led by Hong Kong and the US, where
shipments slid 17 percent and 19 percent, respectively. The recovery is
progressing slower than expected, Zuzanna Pusz, an analyst at Berenberg, said
in a note, adding she’s cautious on the market. China continued
to show growth with a 39 percent increase, while the UK recorded a 30 percent advance,
the fastest pace since September.  Swatch Group AG Chief Executive Officer Nick Hayek said in
March that the weak pound is attracting tourists to buy Swiss watches in the UK, as the
currency effect makes some models less expensive there. The export data is also distorted by Richemont’s inventory
buybacks that began last year, according to Thomas Chauvet, an analyst at
Citigroup. The inventory that was bought back isn’t eliminated from the export
figures. Bloomberg