Arsene Wenger at last got his first competitive win over Jose Mourinho thanks to this 2-0 victory, and has thereby ended United’s odd 25-game unbeaten league run which almost certainly ended their chances of finishing in the top four, while energising their own. The stumbles of Liverpool had changed the complexion of the race for the top four, and it was still a strong United team, who also set up the way Mourinho has in most of his matches against Arsenal and in all of the matches away to the top six this season. While Wenger finally has his win over Mourinho, United still haven’t scored a goal away to any of that top six this season in five games, including a cup tie against Chelsea. There is only one left, away to Tottenham for the last match at the old White Hart Lane. That was actually where a Mourinho side last scored in a game away to the top six, back on 1 January 2015, a match many close to that Chelsea squad believe was key in him greatly reining in previously more expansive tactics in that campaign’s title charge. This, again, was anything but expansive. Whatever about the different players in the line-up, Mourinho took the same approach to such a game that he always does, with United often having 10 men around their own by the 20th minute. They may say they have greater priorities, but that doesn’t excuse how easily Arsenal snapped into them, and looked the better team. There was no great tactical explanation for this result. Arsenal were merely the livelier and more intense side, more willing to try and create, against a United that just sat back bar the odd break led by Anthony Martial. It wasn’t like this was a sturdy United rearguard, either, as Chris Smalling was often talking 19-year-old Axel Tuanzebe through the game. From the start, Arsenal were finding a lot of gaps, and repeatedly getting in behind the United backline. Aaron Ramsey and Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain forced fine saves from David de Gea in the first half, while Wenger’s side twice played the same type of dangerous ball across the United box that only needed a different bounce to go in. Granit Xhaka tried a speculative shot from distance on 54 minutes, and the ball took a huge deflection off the back of Ander Herrera to loop over De Gea and in. It might have been different had the starkly ponderous Wayne Rooney scored a good first-half chance, of course, but that was all United could really look to. Their defenders were soon looking at each other, as the excellent Oxlade-Chamberlain played in yet another fine cross and former United forward Danny Welbeck was left to power in a header. That was that, and that may be that for United’s chances of the top four, too. United should really win the Europa League, given their semi-final lead over Celta Vigo and the fact a younger and much lesser-resourced Ajax are likely to be in the final, but it is still something of a risk to so openly prioritise the competition at the expense of games like this against a very beatable Arsenal. - The Independent