Stunned alliance leaders agreed afterwards that the “embarrassing collapse” of the national Workers’ Day event should serve as a “final wake-up call” that all was not well in the country. Zuma endured more than 30 minutes of jeers and booing by Cosatu members and supporters as he sat sandwiched between Cosatu president S’dumo Dlamini and SACP leader Blade Nzimande at the Loch Logan Park in Mangaung yesterday. This is the second time Zuma had been publicly booed by the people. The nation cringed when he was booed in front of world leaders, including former US president Barack Obama, during Mandela’s national memorial service at FNB Stadium in December 2013. However, yesterday the Free State province, led by ANC provincial chairperson and Premier Ace Magashule, closed ranks and said those who had “collapsed” the rally were not from the province and had been bused in from Kimberley. When it became clear that no speaker would be allowed to speak at the rally, the Cosatu leadership called off the event, and Zuma was quickly whisked away. Nzimande said: “I’m extremely saddened, I think the entire leadership of our alliance should be saddened. It’s the lowest point in my own history as being part of this alliance." The Higher Education minister continued: “We cannot go down in history as a generation of leaders who allowed the alliance to actually split in our own hands, because history will judge us very harshly.” He said the SACP would analyse what had happened and decide on what needed to be done. “As the SACP we are relatively clear about what needs to be done We know the problems of factions and who is in what faction,” said Nzimande. The SACP, Cosatu and the SA National Civic Organisation (Sanco) had all called on Zuma to step down, saying they had lost confidence in him as a leader. However, Magashule dismissed the disruptions as “mob psychology”, although he admitted that the congress movement leadership was divided right at the top. “When the leadership is divided, they divide society, they divide membership.” Magashule is viewed as part of a grouping within the ANC favouring former AU Commission chairperson Dr Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma, who is Zuma’s choice for a candidate to succeed him when he steps down as ANC leader in December. “What has happened today with people who are not residing in this province is an embarrassment to the celebration of May Day. When the leadership is divided at national level, it clearly shows they are dividing membership on the ground. Remember, Cosatu members, affiliates of Cosatu, they are ANC members,” said Magashule. His sentments were echoed by ANC spokesperson Thabo Meeko, who said those who had disrupted the event “can never be workers from our province”. Meeko said they had been “briefed” that the majority of those who carried out the disruptions “have been bused in from Kimberley to disrupt (as) the workers in the Free State would be lukewarm to carry out this anarchic programme”. Sanco deputy president Mathabo Leeto said they were “very much disappointed” the event had collapsed. “I think the workers have collapsed this (rally) themselves. But I think all of us leaders we need to take responsibility because whatever we say in the public unites or divides people,” she said. Zuma’s booing came after some of Cosatu largest affiliates, including Nehawu and Sadtu, demanded that the president should not attend and address the rally. They argued that doing so would create conflict and confusion and further weaken the labour federation. Cosatu took a decision last year that Zuma had to step down as it no longer had confidence in him. Cosatu boss Dlamini described yesterday’s events as “unfortunate”. “This calls for all of us as the leadership to go back, sit down and reflect, and say how do we deal with the challenges confronting us,” he said. Dlamini, who is viewed as close to Zuma, said: “This matter is not purely about individuals. It’s about where the revolution is and how it should proceed. It is sad that this May Day had to collapse. We wanted to address workers on Workers’ Day issues. This didn’t happen.” he said. See Page 4 and 7