The words from Nigerian President Muhammadu Buhari’s chief of staff, Abba Kyari, greeted 82 Chibok schoolgirls on Sunday, the day after Boko Haram militants released them following lengthy negotiations with government officials. For three years since their capture, 276 girls kidnapped from a secondary school in Chibok, a town in Nigeria’s Borno State, have inspired global outrage and activism. #BringBackOurGirls was - and still is - an international campaign. But amid the flurry of good news, the welcoming messages and congratulatory words is one glaring fact. Hundreds of other children kidnapped by Boko Haram remain missing. About 320km north of Chibok in the battered north-east corner of Nigeria is Damasak, a border town riddled with ruins and inhabited by relatives of lost children. There, people feel neglected and abandoned. As worldwide outcry revolved around the Chibok schoolgirls, their loved ones’ capture seems to have escaped public attention. “We really wonder about it - why those girls but not our children?” Alhaji Aji Bukar, 65, told The Washington Post last month. Boko Haram kidnapped his grandson in 2014. Many of the children of Damasak were abducted in the autumn of 2014, a few months after the militants hauled off the 276 girls from the Chibok Government Secondary School. Boko Haram insurgents descended on Damasak on November 24, 2014, and honed in on Zanna Mobarti Primary School, locking more than 300 students, aged 7-17, inside. The militants then turned the school into a military base where they brought in more captives, according to the Human Rights Watch. In March 2015, Boko Haram insurgents fled after security forces from the neighbouring countries of Chad and Niger advanced on Damasak, taking with them their captives. They returned the following month before military forces finally forced them out of the town in July 2016. Residents say more than 500 have been kidnapped. They’ve submitted the names of the missing to local authorities, but families have yet to receive a response. The Chibok girls have largely been the focus of government efforts. Nigeria’s House of Representatives adopted a motion last month urging the executive branch to expedite negotiations for the girls’ release. “Within the limits of what can be disclosed, there’s a lot of negotiations with those individuals holding the Chibok girls,” Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo said shortly before the girls were released. “We have gone quite far with negotiations for hopefully another batch of the girls.” On Saturday, Nigerian officials hailed Buhari for the release of 82 of the 276 Chibok girls. “However, the work is not yet done,” Senate President Abubakar Bukola Saraki said. More than 100 of the Chibok girls have so far been returned, including the 20 who were released last year. The Nigerian government released five Boko Haram commanders in exchange for the 82 girls, according to the Associated Press.