It was only a few months ago that the Proteas whitewashed a helpless Sri Lankan side 5-0 at home. It wasn’t just the fact that the visitors lost every match, but rather that the margins of victory were big. The young and inexperienced Sri Lankan bowling line-up simply struggled to contain the Proteas batting unit, with Faf du Plessis highlighting the gulf between the sides by smashing a career-best 185 at Newlands. Equally, when it was the batsmen’s turn, they did not have technical capacity to deal with the intensity of the SA pace attack or guile of leg-spinner Imran Tahir. The Sri Lankans sorely missed the experience of their skipper Angelo Mathews, who returned home after the T20 series due to injury. But with Mathews back at the helm for the Champions Trophy, the Sri Lankan middle-order will have a great more steel to accompany the precocious talents of youngsters Kusal Mendis and Niroshan Dickwella. Both top-order batsmen will benefit from having the assured presence of Mathews batting below them. If the batsmen are pleased to have a wise-head among them, then the bowlers will be jumping with joy that their long-time talisman Lasith Malinga will also be back in the saddle for the Champions Trophy. The fast bowler has not played a one-day international since 2015 - mainly through injury - but showed in the IPL that he is fit and raring to go. Coupled with the appointment of former SA fast bowler Allan Donald as a bowling consultant for the Champions Trophy, and suddenly Sri Lanka have the building blocks to pose a far greater challenge to the Proteas on Saturday. Donald, who has worked with the Proteas, England, Australia and New Zealand, is excited about his new charges and their ability to spring a major upset in London. “The Sri Lankan attack has what it takes to win the tournament,” Donald recently said. “Sri Lanka has a lot of skills. A lot of leadership with the ball ... what is there to be scared of?” It is a warning to be heeded, especially considering the islanders’ impressive record at major ICC tournaments. Although legends such as Kumar Sangakkara is churning out five successive hundreds for Sussex in the county championship instead of the national team these days, the Sri Lankans are renowned for holding their nerve in pressure games - which is exactly what the Champions Trophy is all about!  X-Factor man: Lasith Malinga Age 33, Matches 191, Wickets 291, 
BB 6/38, Ave 27.77 With his unique action “Slinga” Malinga will always be a threat, rifling in those yorkers at the base of the stumps. Although the veteran has lost a yard of pace over the years, his slower-ball variations remain up there with the very best during the death overs. Champions Trophy history 1998 Semi-finalists 2000 Quarter-finalists 2002 Joint-champions 2004 Knocked out in the group stage 2006 Knocked out in the group stage 2009 Knocked out in the group stage 2013 Semi-finalists Squad Angelo Mathews (c), Dinesh Chandimal (wk), Upul Tharanga, Niroshan Dickwella, Kusal Mendis, Kusal Perera, Chamara Kapugedera, Asela Gunaratne, Lasith Malinga, Suranga Lakmal, Nuwan Kulasekara, Nuwan Pradeep, Thisara Perera, Lakshan Sandakan, Seekkuge Prasanna