The fellowship for young African leaders began in 2014, and was the flagship programme of the Young African Leaders Initiative that empowered young people through academic coursework, leadership training and networking. Mtimkulu is a DA councillor in Tshwane and the deputy chief whip at the city council. “The Mandela Fellowship for me represents an unrivalled opportunity for one to learn practically what it takes to succeed on a global stage, pitted against not only the best that South Africa has to offer, but against the best on the continent,” he said. Mtimkulu said the fellowship would give him a chance to obtain new skills, which he would in turn use to improve his work as a councillor. He heard about the fellowship while he was on an election exchange programme as an American Council of Young Political Leaders Fellow last November during the US election. He was in the US as an observer of the US election. “The selection process for the fellowship was vigorous and intense, with an in-depth paper application followed by a comprehensive interview with US Embassy staff and alumni from the fellowship,” he said. There were more than 64 000 applicants from all over Africa and around 3 700 from South Africa. “I will be taking up the fellowship at Texas Tech University, where I will do a public management stream over six weeks. The rigorous academic programme will run from June 16 to July 31 followed by the presidential summit in Washington DC the week after,” he said. Mtimkulu’s  involvement with DA politics began in 2014 as a parliamentary media officer. In 2015, he was head of the DA’s municipal elections campaign for the incumbent city mayor Solly Msimanga. Mtimkulu is a law graduate of the University of Pretoria, an attorney by training and is currently pursuing his masters of law in international economic law. He has extensive work experience as an attorney at a major continental law firm and as assistant vice-president in the group company secretariat division within a global investment bank. Mtimkulu said he left the mass earning potential in law and banking to pursue politics in an attempt to becoming intimately involved in the events that shape his country. He is currently a World Economic Forum Global Shaper and an alumnus Fellow of the American Council of Young Political Leaders. Mtimkulu described himself  as a moderate social and political activist who believed that “a paralysed citizenry is a hallmark of democratic degeneration within the state" and he hopes to spark debate, "thereby allowing South Africans to reclaim their destiny after years of delegating it to the politicians of the day”. “In a democracy the need for international exposure that educates one in the best practices has never been more imperative,” he said.