What separated the Scholtz farmhouse and our township was a railway line. We would cross the line when we went to the farm to buy sheep or cattle for slaughter for our traditional rituals. Scholtz’s boys would enter our township only to deliver cows we would slaughter mainly for funerals or weddings. There was indeed a mutually beneficial relationship between Scholtz, his family and the township residents. I am told that if one was a regular customer he would grant a discount and, in those days, you could easily buy a sheep for R70. The short of it is that Scholtz as a farmer was a good man; he treated his neighbours well and conducted his business dealings with them in a fair manner. For us as schoolboys a peaceful relationship with Scholtz and his family was just not enough. Some afternoons, we would sneak out of our homes, cross the railway line and help ourselves to fruit on the trees which bordered his farm. The adventure and thrill of walking next to Scholtz’s farm would win the respect of one’s peers, especially girls. The adventure of creeping onto the farm sometimes came with its challenges. The boys on his farm, riding on horseback, would chase us. We would run in the direction of the railway line because we knew that they would not cross the line because their territory was on the other side. The railway line was a symbol of forced separation by the inhuman socio-economic system of apartheid. Our escapades on Scholtz’s farm never resulted in injury or loss of life. But news of our adventures would reach our teachers and parents. We would be summoned to the principal’s office to explain what we were doing at the farm. No amount of explanation would save us from a beating with a stick. My parents would deal with our mischief in a rather different manner; they would use gentle persuasion to convince us never to go on such risky adventures. My mom would say: “Leave Scholtz alone because he does not come to the location to bring you trouble, so why do you go over the railway line to bother a man on his farm?” I would say we had nothing against Scholtz; all we wanted was the fruit we could only get from his farm which happened to be located on our land. I was too young a boy to win an argument on farms, white people, apartheid or land. I simply gave in and decided not to join my friends on further escapades. As a township boy, that was the end of my relationship with a white farmer. I just needed a good education, buy a house and get out of the poverty of township life and to stay away from the likes of Scholtz and their farms. After many years my dreams came true and I bought a house and moved out of my parents’ home. A few weeks later my parents paid me a courtesy visit and requested that I slaughter a sheep to inform our ancestors that I had moved into a house of my own. I informed them that I now lived in a suburb and there was no Jan Scholtz’s farm where I would just cross the railway line and come back with a sheep. A  friend introduced me to Marius whose parents owned a farm not far from my house. Eventually, I bought a sheep from the farm as directed by my parents. Marius owned a butchery in my neighbourhood where I became a regular customer. I have often been advised not to say “never” would something happen to me. Twenty years or so later, circumstances brought me into a business relationship with an Afrikaans cattle farming family. I thought I was done with the likes of Jan Scholtz and what was a respectable relationship with the community where I lived as a child. Fifteen years later I visited a butcher near my second home to hire a spit braai and came face-to-face with my old acquaintance, Marius then owned a modern beautifully laid out butchery. We could not hold back the excitement of seeing each other after more than a decade. We chatted about wives, children and the fact that soon we will be retired madalas (old men). After catching up with Marius, I went to the comfort of my home to relax. I watched in horror as the town of Coligny was being torn apart by violent protests. Television footage showed images of houses of white farmers or smallholding owners being burnt by angry black youths. They were protesting against the release (on bail) of two white men charged with the murder of Motlhame Mosweu for allegedly stealing sunflowers from a farmer’s property. There is more to the violent protests in Coligny than meets the eye. The deep-seated socio-econo-political issues need to be unravelled to understand the circumstances which led to the death of Motlhame, affectionately known as Feki. Given our racially divided history, it’s easy to take sides instead of promoting healing and social cohesion. Politicians who fanned racial hatred and violence at the gravesite should be condemned for promoting their nefarious political agenda over the lifeless body of a schoolboy. Next month the two men will appear in court to face charges for the death of Feki. But all of us as South Africans will still face the onerous task of building a non-racial South Africa which provides opportunity for all to grow and fulfil their dreams. As I connect the dots of my experiences with the Afrikaans-speaking farmers, from Scholtz to Marius, I have hope that a safe and prosperous South Africa is a reality we can achieve. It all begins with you. Dr Faleni (PhD): DA Member of the North West Provincial Legislature, writing in his personal capacity