Pretoria - The High Court in Pretoria on Tuesday ruled against the order by the Department of Social Development and its social grants agency South Africa Social Security Agency (Sassa) to stop Net1 from allowing deductions from accounts of grants beneficiaries. Net1 is in charge of administering payments to social grants beneficiaries through its subsidiary company called Cash Paymaster Services (CPS). The court also dismissed application by activist group Black Sash Trust to be part of the court case. The activist group supported a call by the department and Sassa to force CPS from allowing deductions to go off the beneficiary accounts. Net1 applied for "condonation" of the filing of a supplementary affidavit responding to new facts raised in the application by Black Sash. Evashnee Naidu, a Kwa-Zulu Natal regional manager for Black Sash, said the organisation was absolutely shocked and aggrieved by the judgement. Naidu said the ruling disregarded the March 17 Constitutional Court ruling affirming that the information of beneficiaries ought to be respected. "The judge didn't take into consideration the impact of deductions on poor households. We are also upset that the judge din't feel fit that Black Sash story ought to be heard,"she said. Naidu said the judgment meant that CPS would continue to deduct money for airtime, loans and electricity from the social grants beneficiaries unabated. "The judge ruled in favour of the interpretations of the Net1. We are discussing with our attorneys what Sassa plans are," Naidu said. CJ van der Westhuizen, acting judge of the High Court, said: "The applications should not be granted because the issues raised in the application was not appropriate to the approach adopted in this judgement and particular in view of the relief sought." Van der Westhuizen said the case put forward by Sassa and the department hinged on its interpretation of the new regulations 21 and 26A. The regulations related to an interpretation as prohibiting all electronic debits, stop orders and electronic fund transfer from beneficiary accounts held at Grindrod, a subsidiary of Net1. "Sassa ordered CPS and Grindrod to stop all debit orders being processed off the beneficiary accounts with immediate effect from promulgation of the new regulation,"the judge said. Net1 has contested Sassa and the department interpretation and refused to stop deductions from the banks of grants beneficiaries. "The practical implications of the first, second and third respondents interpretations of the said new regulations affect the operation of over 10 million beneficiary bank accounts that translate into a value of approximately R550 million per month,"the judge said. He said "the applications to intervene and for admission as amici curiae" by Black Sash cannot succeed because they dealt with alleged constitutional issues, which were not strictly relevant in considering the interpretation of the provisions of regulations 21 and 26A promulgated in May 2016. "A sub-section clearly does not apply in respect of the debit orders entered against a bank account. A debit order is nothing more than an electronic form of payment that is effected upon an instruction by the bank account holder to his or her bank in favour of a third party," the judge said. Sassa spokesman Kgomoco Diseko said: "It is a complex judgement and we are still studying it. We will issue a statement after allowing our legal department to study it."  rapula.moatshe@inl.co.za  Pretoria News