With three games left, Juve are seven points clear of second-placed Roma and look to take a first step toward a momentous season treble by clinching a record sixth successive title. Fatigue can be an issue for the Bianconeri, who Tuesday secured a spot in the Champions League final by eliminating Monaco with a 4-1 aggregate, and are to meet Lazio in Wednesday’s Italian Cup final. Hopes of winning the Scudetto are faint for the Rome Giallorossi, but they need to stay ahead of Napoli, one point adrift and striving to avoid the Champions League play-offs awaiting the third-placed finishers. Missing the classic at the Stadio Olimpico due to a calf strain is league top scorer Edin Dzeko and possibly key midfielder Radja Nainggolan. The Bosnia ace Dzeko struck twice in Sunday’s 4-1 win at AC Milan for a tally of 27 league goals and could be available only to close the season at home to Genoa, while the Belgian Nainggolan still hopes to be fit by Sunday. Roma’s legendary captain Francesco Totti, meanwhile, declined to comment on his farewell to football and concentrated on the season finale. “All I know is that Juve comes to Rome on Sunday and I’m thinking only of that because we’re fighting right to the end of the championship and Roma comes before everything else,” the 40-year-old captain said via social media. Juve boss Massimiliano Allegri wants to settle domestic matters as soon as possible. “We need a point at Roma on Sunday, otherwise we’ll have to beat Crotone to win the Scudetto,” Allegri said. “We must remain alert and fully focused at all times.” Allegri’s mention of third-last Crotone should not surprise as the newcomers clinched 14 points in the past six games, two more than Juve, in an impressive rush to avoid relegation. The Calabria underdogs sit four points from safety when they welcome Udinese on Sunday, while fourth-last Empoli are at Cagliari and fifth-placed Genoa visit relegated Palermo. In other afternoon action, Napoli visit Torino, who last weekend had a man dismissed as they held the Bianconeri 1-1. Fourth-placed Lazio have one of three Europa League places secured when they play tomorrow at Fiorentina, who are three points shy of a place in the tournament. Inter Milan are level with the Florence side and take on Sassuolo after firing coach Stefano Pioli.