Western Cape Government because it recognises the power in
entrepreneurs who create businesses as new businesses create jobs, this
according to Western Cape Minister of Economic Opportunities Alan Winde. The Western Cape Funding Fair held at the Cape Town
International Convention Centre this morning is a joint initiative between
Deloitte Western Cape and the Department of
Economic Development and Tourism (DEDAT), its exhibition and conference style
platform is aimed at creating awareness of and access to multiple funding
organisations. Read also: Golden opportunity for entrepreneurs Now in its third year, the event kicked-off to a packed
audience of over 2 000 business owners and entrepreneurs who signed up to
attend business information sessions and to connect with over 24 active funding
organisations. The speaker line-up included well-known thought leader and
entrepreneur Rapelang Rabana, Matsi Modise Managing Director of SiMODisa and
Jason Goldberg, Founder and CEO of 10x-e. Representatives from ABSA, Business
Partners, CCDI, Edge Growth, SEDA, SEFA and Nedbank were available to meet with
business owners throughout the day. “Our commitment to foster the spirit of entrepreneurship in
the Western Cape
is unwavering. Through our engagement with entrepreneurs, we have learnt that
the most common problem they face is around gaining access to finance in order
to grow their businesses. We know that innovative entrepreneurs play a
significant role in driving the Western
  Cape economy. That is why we support initiatives like these which prepare
entrepreneurs for fund raising and help to connect them to potential investors.
I would also like to thank Deloitte for sharing in our commitment to supporting
entrepreneurs,” said Minister Winde. “As government, it is our role to create an enabling
environment for businesses to thrive. Through the Funding Fair, we partner with
the private sector to make sure that business owners have the knowledge to
get their enterprises to the next level, in particular as they seek funding.” “To enable small business to succeed it is important that
the people with innovative ideas and skills have access to the vital
entrepreneurial resources like money, and know-how to grow their businesses,”
says Marius Alberts, head of Deloitte Western Cape.
“When small businesses prosper, it stimulates economic growth through job
creation, and it is for this reason that we are delighted to partner with DEDAT
on this important initiative.” “Today not only did we have a full house attending our
curated speaker programme, but we also had an impressive turnout from funders
who are eager to potentially invest their money in great businesses. There is
immense satisfaction meeting with passionate business owners and entrepreneurs
who are hungry for the right information to help their businesses succeed,”
says Alberts. BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE 