A court yesterday sentenced Jakarta’s outgoing governor Basuki Tjahaja Purnama to two years in prison for blasphemy over remarks he made about the Qur’an. The verdict has raised concerns about religious intolerance in the country. Purnama, Jakarta’s first ethnic Chinese Christian governor, was sent to prison even though he said he would appeal. “Our dreams as members of the minority died along with justice,” said Arnold Priadi Bolang, a motivational speaker and Christian. “I’m losing hope of him serving this country,” he said. His bleak sentiment was echoed by many others on social media. Purnama lost a re-election bid in last month’s gubernatorial election run-off to a Muslim candidate, Anies Baswedan, despite securing most votes in a three-way first-round poll on February 15. During an official function in September, Purnama said his 
opponents had “lied” to them by saying the Qur’an prohibited them from voting for a non-Muslim governor. A video of his speech became available online and led to hundreds of thousands of conservative Muslims demanding his prosecution at rallies. Indonesia is the world’s most populous Muslim-majority country, but Christians make up about 10% of its 250 million people. Ray Rangkuti, a political analyst and director of Lingkar Madani Indonesia, a group advocating for civil society, said Purnama’s jailing bodes ill for the political future of President Joko Widodo, who is widely expected to seek re-election in 2019. Purnama is seen as the president’s protégé. Some analysts believed the real target of the brouhaha was not Purnama, but Joko. “It’s bad for Jokowi because on one hand he’s no friend of the hardliners, whose influence is growing,” Rangkuti said, using Purnama’s Chinese nickname. “On the other hand, liberals and other pro-democracy Indonesians are disappointed with his perceived inaction in the face of intolerance,” he said. Purnama’s election rival, Baswedan, was backed by conservative Muslims who wanted incumbent Purnama jailed for the perceived insult to Islam. - dpa