A last-ditch coalition deal with the African Independent Congress (AIC) meant the ANC was able to hang on to power in Ekurhuleni. The EFF, with its 6% national vote from last August's polls, emerged as a kingmaker in key municipalities and was in pole position to make demands on those who courted them for possible coalition governments. In the end, the EFF voted to give the DA control of two crucial metros, even though it insists it’s not in coalition with the blue party. At the heart of the coalition demands, the EFF was willing to broker a deal for the ANC to retain power in Gauteng metros only if Luthuli House ousted President Jacob Zuma, as well as using its 6% national vote to amend the constitution to pave the way for expropriation of land without compensation, among others. But the ANC refused, insisting correctly that its leadership question cannot be decided by an opposition party. This meant the hard working former Joburg mayor Parks Tau lost his mayoral seat to Herman Mashaba. The DA insisted on keeping Mashaba as its Joburg candidate despite reservations from their newfound friends, the EFF, about his free market economy ideology. In Nelson Mandela Bay, Bantu Holomisa’s UDM emerged as the kingmarker, affirming the DA’s Athol Trollip as mayor. But that honeymoon has ended prematurely given public squabbles between Trollip and his deputy, the UDM’s Mongameli Bobani. After the elections dust settled, the next big question was - can the coalition governments really be the future of governance in South Africa? In short - coalition governments like one between the EFF and the DA can be best compared to a long pregnancy that would need to be ended with an urgent C-section. Nine months ago two parties that are direct opposites jumped into bed and took romantic walks in the park, courting each other despite their glaring differences. Along the journey, which has been an emotional roller coaster, one party has attempted to leave the union and return to an old lover if they can get land. But that didn’t materialise and the two are still stuck in an unhappy marriage, for how long, time will tell. Many in the EFF realised that the cardinal sin of Malema’s ego, in teaching the ANC a lesson could well be the end of the EFF over time. In March the UDM approached the Constitutional Court in a bid to force a secret ballot in a motion of no confidence vote against President Jacob Zuma in the National Assembly. The sitting that was set to debate the umpteenth motion had been postponed from an earlier date pending the ConCourt decision. The EFF then joined the UDM as friends of the court. While all opposition parties appeared to be happily sharing a bench during secret ballot hearings at the Concourt, there also seems to be trouble in paradise between some of them. If the U-turn by the EFF during the land expropriation vote and the rocky union between the DA and UDM in Port Elizabeth is anything to go by, one cannot say with conviction that coalition governments can truly stand the test of time. To put the above into context based on recent events, the coalition between the DA and the EFF (it is a coalition no matter how the red berets want to define it) is one of serious convenience. The two parties can hardly ever agree 
on anything except their hatred for Zuma. If Zuma was not a factor, the EFF would have long been in coalition with the ANC. In April the motley crew of friends in opposition to the ANC took to the streets to demand the removal of Zuma who was elected by no less than 11 million South Africans. Another “on-partisan” march - under the banner “Save SA” - took place with thousands marching to the Union Buildings asking for Zuma to step down over state capture allegations. Save SA is another disgruntled group led by Sipho Pityana and corporate friends who have never risen up against poverty and inequality. An analysis of any possible anti-ANC coalition from opposition forces shows that such a union would be doomed. But what happens when Zuma goes as per the ANC constitution? Then what? Even if they were to succeed in dislodging the ANC, such a coalition government would be stillborn. Would it govern in terms of EFF ideology of expropriation without compensation and nationalisation? The DA would never accept that, nor would the EFF accept the DA’s dogmatic belief in an unfettered free market system. The opposition must stop using Zuma as some form of unifying point when the glaring reality is that those parties cannot stand one another. Sayed is the ANC Youth League Western Cape Provincial Chairperson