Visitors were greeted by the sparkles of the well crafted glass art in the dimly lit room, accompanied by a guitar playing in the background. The 30-year-old from the Free State now lives in Arcadia. Pati said he was not a man of many 
words and would rather let his art speak for itself. He told the Pretoria News he was overwhelmed and honoured to see such a huge number of people attending his first solo exhibition, titled “The Transparency Beauty of Ubuntu’. “I am honoured about the turn-out, but I feel there is more I can still deliver,” he said. Growing up, he said, he never saw himself as an artist, although he knew how to draw from an early age. He just never thought he could make a career out of it, he said. “It was only when I won the Ekasi competition while I was in Grade 10 that I thought I could actually make a living from art. “The competition required one to draw a cartoon and e-mail it, which I did, and won R500,” he said. Pati said he only got introduced to glass art when he enrolled at the Tshwane University of Technology. “When I got to university I knew I could paint and draw, but I got introduced to glass art and I was hooked,” he said. “I soon realised that the glass medium was mainly recognised internally. “I then did research and saw there were not a lot of glass artists in South Africa. “I decided to explore the medium and make it my journey and grow from this,” Pati said. Owing to this decision he is now among the few glass artists in the country. Though he has used other art mediums such as beads and wires for other art pieces, glass is his signature art. His grandmother Martha Pati said she was proud to see the talent of her grandson on display. The 89-year-old had travelled from Vryburg for her grandson’s first solo exhibition. “I thank God to have taken care of my grandson and for giving him such a gift that he can use with his hands. At least now I see what he does when he doesn’t come home,” the proud grandmother said. However, she said art was nothing new in the family as her brother was also an artist. “My brother was also an artist, but instead of glass he used wood. I suspect that Kgotso got the talent from him,” she said.