Some women have been driving for years, if not in their own country then elsewhere, and those who aren’t are keen to start, said the article. But for the Ambassador of Saudi Arabia in Pretoria, Ghorm Said Malhan, the fuss over this story is unnecessary as there are other ways in which Saudi society has opened up, and the promotion of its women is key to this change. He says it is noticeable to him when he travels home, and he sees women at work everywhere he goes, from the airport to the bank, from offices to agriculture, in schools and hospitals. In one hospital with an excellent reputation, he said, there were more women medical staff than men. The last time he was home, he recounts, he went for dinner with family and, at the restaurant, noticed a group of young Saudi women out enjoying a meal together; something that one possibly may not have seen a decade ago. Ambassador Malhan says it is possible that the position of women in Saudi Arabia is misunderstood because of cultural differences with other world views, but he insists that his country is an open one, in which women’s roles in society and leadership are constantly expanding. Saudi women are achieving exceptionally in terms of education and employment in fields, but many misconceptions remain, he said. Women are becoming involved in politics, standing for election and becoming representatives of the people, with about 30 women in the Saudi parliament. “The number of women studying abroad has increased, and women are not excluded in terms of following a career of their choice,” he said. Malhan said it was an aim of development in the Kingdom that women had access to higher education and professional lives in addition to traditional family roles, and the number of working women across the board is increasing rapidly, and with it, their contribution to the future vision of the country. Of course not everyone will agree, there will always be traditionalists who resist change, but Malhan is certainly not one of those - he is fully in favour of change which gives women more rights and opportunity within and beyond his country. He said that around 150000 Saudis, approximately half of them women, are studying abroad on State scholarships, with all their needs met by 
the government. This extends to 
South Africa, where there are 
Saudi students studying medicine, 
for example. This is part of the government’s efforts to develop human capital 
and make the kingdom a world leader in terms of Saudi Arabia KSA Vision 2030. This policy, approved 
last year, sees the country situated 
at the “heart of the world and connecting three continents, rise as an investment powerhouse. Saudi Arabia, which welcomes with a thriving economy and vibrant society, based on the development of its greatest resource which, the ambassador is quick to point out, is not oil, but human resources and, in particular, those of women.