Lesufi said neither schools, nor police, were doing enough to protect pupils from sexual assault.  He spoke following new claims that a pupil from Mahube Valley Secondary School in Mamelodi, and another from a Benoni school had been raped during school events. Prior to visiting Mahube Valley, Lesufi was fresh from addressing parents and the community of AB Xuma Primary School in Soweto, where 87 pupils had allegedly been sexually assaulted by a school patroller. The MEC has since suspended the entire senior management of the school. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  Lesufi then came to Mahube Valley in the city, where a 17-year-old girl was allegedly raped by an uninvited scholar patroller at a matric dance event held at Bronkhorstspruit on September 30. “I received an anonymous message on Friday, indicating that there was an incident at this particular school during a matric dance event. The parent and the child were urging me to investigate because they suspected that this information was not made available to the parents of the school and they are picking it up from their own children,” he said. Lesufi said a 28-year-old suspect had been caught in the act, according to a report the MEC was given when he met community leaders, principal Thoko Zikhali and the pupil’s guardian.  “The event started at around 9pm and the formal activity came to an end at around midnight. The principal, being the oldest citizen in the school, retreated and asked remaining school management team members to take care of the pupils. It was at about 2am when the incident happened.” Lesufi said the team noticed the pupil was not accounted for when they did a roll call of the pupils, and that was when principal Zikhali stumbled upon the suspect at the event. She asked him what he was doing at a school event and how he got there. It is alleged that, the perpetrator took advantage of the victim who was apparently under the influence of alcohol, reportedly brought by three boys to the school function. It was reported that the girl went missing and was found by an educator indulging in sexual activities. The department will provide the necessary support and counselling to all pupils affected by this incident. In addition, the patroller’s services will be terminated immediately 
and all boys who brought alcohol to the school function will be suspended. The victim will be placed in another school and supported with all study material. After the confrontation, the pupil confessed that something had indeed happened. On the basis of that, the principal notified the parents even though the child was unhappy that the principal wanted to take the matter further. “They went to open a case the following day, and unfortunately the police station turned them back. They were told to go to another police station because the incident happened in Bronkhorstspruit. I am emphasising that point because it is a point that I am completely disgusted with. “If the police are still turning back people without rushing to gather evidence, it’s a serious cause for concern. It’s a matter that one will raise with the relevant authorities so that we can attend and deal with it,” he said. A case was later opened with the police station in Bronkhorstspruit and the suspect arrested. He is due to appear in the Bronkhorstspruit Magistrate’s Court tomorrow. The emotional parent, who cannot be named to protect the child, told the Pretoria News that he had tipped Lesufi off about the incident as he suspected the school was trying to hide it. “The school did not communicate this information to the parents. We heard the news from our children who go to the school and that is why we are so upset. I have two girls in matric and another in Grade 9 and this makes me angry. I am not happy with how the school, and in particular the principal, handled this matter,” he said. “Obviously she will tell the MEC a different story, but we know a lot of questionable things happen at this school. I was even (barred) from the school for repeatedly questioning some of the principal’s decisions. I hope our children will not be punished because we spoke out against the school.” Lesufi rushed to Benoni where another pupil was allegedly raped during a school outing at the weekend. Police there were also accused of failing to act with urgency. Lungelwa Zwane, chairperson of the parliamentary committee, said the schooling environment must at all times be a place of safety, where children were able to learn without hindrance. Zwane urged the Department of Education to strengthen verification procedures with the National Register for Sex Offenders to ensure that children were protected from known offenders. “Furthermore, adults who are found to have committed these vile and criminal acts must be removed from the teaching profession and society of children,” Zwane said. “We have failed our children and have exposed them to risks from which they must be protected. As a society, we need to find solutions to these problems that besiege the education sector.”