Certainly not to me. I still expected more from you as you continue to build us in faith, in personality and in love. Your love posts preceded by the words “you know you are in love” are well known to your followers. A week before your death we shared a moment where I asked you to pray, as we always knew between me and you I never came close to being a pastor. It is your reply that made sense, later on reflection of our last days together, when you said: “No, my brother, this requires you to pray about it.” These words, in hindsight, meant I needed to be strong in faith, as I must have the strength to deal with your departure. That time came days later and had devastating effects on me and many who shared love, faith and ideas including ideological discussions with you. The tragic news on Friday, October 20, left me numb and dumbfounded. I felt a sword ripping through me as I learnt of the loss of a brother. Your passion for the love of others and their well-being, I saw and experienced personally through friendship that transcended into brotherhood for way over 15 years. I will not forget your calls, bemoaning wrongdoing in government communication as you appealed for better and professional conduct by communicators. Your passion for the art and management of messages, and your forthright approach to addressing issues earned you the respect of journalists and many in the communication profession. Stubborn as you were, you never shied from pursuing with humility what you believed in; but you were open to persuasion. Emotional being as you were, you made sure that your emotions never affected others negatively. The professional conduct that you epitomised made sure that the complex issues you had to deal with for the department were communicated in the simplest way and understood by the broader public. The reactions following the news of your tragic death bear testimony to the great work you did for the department and country. It is sad that you will not have an opportunity to review them. I observed how you conducted your relationships with journalists, particularly those who covered the portfolio of health. I have seen the relationships, some of which were transformed into friendships, sisterhoods and brotherhoods with those in the health profession, including the NGO sector. Members of the SA Aids Council always spoke fondly of you. In government communications many are reeling with pain and shock; they all recall their interaction with you, most commonly how you cared for their wellbeing at every opportunity. What they are unanimous about is that government communication is poorer without you. My friend, to express your unhappiness with me you often called me “my former friend”. I would know that one way or another, I must account. Even if I took a week without talking to you, those would be the words that will meet me at accepting your call or you receiving mine. I reflect with pride and joy the moments we shared together that made us discover many common interests we never knew we had for the years of our lives. The years of our brotherhood were defined by common interests, which were amazing and strengthened our bond. We worked together to ensure that we achieve better results through our efforts to be better government communicators. We often worked to support others in what they did so we could collectively execute our work to the best of our ability. When I called you about an initiative to raise school shoes for pupils who went to school barefooted, your response was “Yes, where do we start?” That response gave birth to OneMillionSchoolShoes Campaign, a registered non-profit organisation established to raise school shoes for pupils across the country  - of which you were a founding member. The passion you showed in this initiative has seen more than 5000 pupils being beneficiaries of new school shoes in Limpopo, Gauteng, KwaZulu-Natal, North West, Free State and Mpumalanga. The movement will continue to reach more in your honour. We shared a common interest in golf; we played countless games together even if it was only the two of us, in a game that commonly required four. My only disappointment is that you went silent before  we had completed our goal of converting at least 10 non-golfing friends into golfers. However, the dream began when you donated your own clubs to one friend and brother whom we hoped would join us next time we hit the greens.Similarly, the passion and goal you left will have to be completed in your honour. Now that you have gone silent, who am I going to bounce my ideas with? Who am I going to share my sorrows, frustrations and celebrations with? Your love and support I will carry to eternity. As your shining light goes off, may the Lord fight the remainder of your battles. As we lay you to rest on Saturday,  October 28, in Polokwane, I will be picking up the spear to continue the journey not complete. Maloka is a former government communicator and a friend of the late Joe Maila.