Executive mayor Solly Msimanga told a public meeting at Sammy Marks Library Hall he was shocked to find out that most of these people were safeguarding their stock because of lack of proper facilities dedicated to informal traders. The meeting was attended by informal traders, business owners, property owners and the general public. It was addressed by Msimanga, joined by his MMCs. During the heart-to-heart engagements, the traders also told Msimanga that they had difficulties with security, the right to trade, marketing and selling space, logistics and finance. The mayor was providing feedback to communities regarding the adopted 2017/18 Integrated Development Plans (IDPs) and budget. Municipalities are obliged to encourage the involvement of communities and community organisations in the work and progress they make. Deputy chairman of the Unified Tshwane Traders, Ramodike Morema, told Msimanga: “We face inclement weather and deal with a lack of facilities such as water, toilets, shelter, storage and electricity. "Many of us don’t have a bank account, never mind access to finance.” Morema, who has worked in the informal sector for a number of years, stressed that uplifting the informal economy would have a positive effect on the greater economy. Responding to the concerns, Msimanga said the City would provide R60million to informal traders. “We will build structures and make sure that these are permanent shelters for those trading. "Gone are the days that traders will be operating under umbrellas. We're going to make sure that there are lockable stalls,” said Msimanga.  Another infrastructure challenge raised was the tarring of roads and insufficient storm water drainage systems. They said they experienced discomfort with dust, flooding and movement challenges when it rained. To this, Msimanga indicated that the City had put aside R2.2m in the current financial year to maintain the gravel roads and fix the drainage system. Business owners near Brown Street complained about the high level of crime around the precinct, as well as drug abuse, which affected  their sales. “People no longer want to come to that side of town for their shopping because of the high levels of crime,” said one business owner. Msimanga said a budget allocation of R2billion had been made for the Tshwane Metro Police Department to give effect to the City’s crime-fighting agenda. The mayor further explained that the City would focus on utilising the metro police and law enforcement to increase visible policing in strategic areas. The City would also address  the metro police’s ability to respond to a variety of challenges, and prioritise initiatives to deal with drug abuse and protecting residents from disasters effectively. “A metro police satellite office will also be set up near Brown Street to keep a close watch on the criminal activities,” he said. Msimanga also got loud cheers from sport lovers when he explained that the City would inject a handsome amount into the refurbishing of soccer stadiums. “For us to be able to fix the HM Pitje Stadium, we have put R32m aside in the 2017/18 financial year, and next year we will inject R15m, followed by R1m in the subsequent financial year.” Caledonian Stadium will receive R50m for refurbishment and will no longer be turned into a park as envisaged by the former ANC administration. “We listened to you when you said your kids needed a proper sport facility instead of playing in the parks,” added Msimanga.