The massive, vibey precinct features offices, a hospital, an indoor running track and residential units, among other features. It is owned by Atterbury Property, which consolidated its Joburg and Pretoria offices and moved them to “the convenient and attractive destination”. At the forefront of this development are professionals who studied at the University of Pretoria. The Pretoria News was taken on a tour of the new building by architect Tony Hofman, interior designer Grysbert van Graan, chief executive Louis van der Watt, deputy chief executive Armond Boshoff and chief operating officer Stoffel van Beek. Van der Watt said the company played an important role that turned Pretoria east into an area where people lived, ate and played. This year, Pretoria east held its own among the country’s most developed regions. It ranked high in comparison with popular areas, and replaced precincts such as Sandton as the most valuable area in the province, Seeff Property Group said. The group said Pretoria east ranked among the busiest markets in Gauteng and outranked Sandton both in terms of the number of properties sold and total value generated. With the opening of the new building, residents of Pretoria could be proud of the establishment, which brought them a mega gym club and a stunning indoor 147m racetrack, it added.  Van der Watt said: “Office consolidation is a growing trend among top business in South Africa, and Atterbury is at the forefront of developing flagship corporate head offices that facilitate major corporate consolidations for leading blue-chip businesses. “Embracing the advantages of consolidation for our own business became a no-brainer for Atterbury.” Boshoff said the offices were much more than a company address - they were collaborative spaces that inspired innovation and boosted performance. He said: “The company has a good relationship with the community of Pretoria and that is because we are excited about South Africa. Despite the current economic status, we are always excited to invest in the country. We are positive about the country and because of that, we will continue to invest as far as we can.” The mixed-use building, The Club, houses Atterbury’s major businesses, including Atterbury Asset Management, Atterbury Property Development and the company’s financial services under the management of Adrian van Rooyen. The Club precinct is home to 14000m² of vibrant retail stores, restaurants and offices, Club Retail and Club One. The 5200m² Club Two (also known as Die Klubhuis) houses the modern and high-tech 3300m² Planet Fitness Megaclub, as well as A-grade offices and Atterbury’s new headquarters. Boshoff said: “A 10000m² Club Three will include The Club Advocate’s Chambers, and is expected to be operational from November1. There will also be a medical day hospital of around 5000m², and residential units. The development is expected to be completed by the first quarter of next year, and is already displaying team photos taken annually since 2006. The photos showcased Atterbury memorabilia collected since 1994, after the company was founded.