I did just that last week when I was in Seoul, and interviewed one of the best-known survivors of Yodok forced labour camp, known as “Camp 15”, in North Korea - Kang Cheol Hwan. Kang is not an easy man to get hold of, given the demands on his time as the director of the North Korea Strategy Centre. These days there is hardly a spare half hour in his diary with the flare-up of tension in the Korean peninsula. But for someone who has met numerous world leaders, Kang is remarkably humble and soft-spoken. It is never easy to ask someone about an agonising period in their lives, but even more so about their experiences in one of the infamous prison camps in the world, hidden deep in the mountains of North Korea. Camp 15 is one of the rare prison camps in North Korea from which there is the remote possibility of eventual release. For those imprisoned in 95% of the prison camps, there is no release - they will die in the  impenetrable mountains of the hermit kingdom. It is commonly known in North Korea that if someone articulates any type of criticism against the regime, three generations of their family will be taken to a prison labour camp. The story that led to Kang's family being imprisoned in Camp 15 is of particular interest. His grandfather lived in South Korea during World War II and was taken by the Japanese occupying forces to Japan. After the war he remained in Japan and headed the Economic Association. “My grandmother was committed to her communist beliefs and insisted on taking the whole family back to what was then North Korea,” Kang said. It was a decision that she later lived to regret. Back in Korea, his grandfather was given a senior position in charge of the state’s department stores for rationing food, and his wife held a highly respected position as the deputy chair of a committee in the national assembly. The wife of Kim Il Sung chaired the committee. After the death of Kim Il Sung, power was transferred to his son, Kim Jong Il. “It was the creation of a family dynasty that drew criticism from my grandfather, who believed it was not in keeping with communist principles,” Kang said. Such dissenting views were not taken kindly to, and party officials tried to smear his reputation by suggesting that he was an agent of the Japanese police. His grandfather was sent to one of the most brutal and infamous prison camps, while the next two generations of his family were sent to Camp 15 for what ended up being 10 years. Kang’s mother was spared as she came from a family who were considered royalty to the Kim regime. She was forced to divorce Kang’s father to avoid being imprisoned. It was then that he, his uncle, grandmother and siblings were taken to Camp 15. “My earliest memory of the camp that first autumn as a 10- year-old was seeing the young boys running around looking worse than beggars. They were all skin and bone, without shoes, and many kids years older than myself were the same height, as malnourishment had stunted their growth,” Kang said. From day one he was subjected to hard labour, which entailed pulling heavy wood from the forests to the camp - sometimes 3km or more. “I nearly fainted under the weight. If you didn’t perform the work expected by the guards, it was not the guards who would beat you, but they would instruct members of your work group to exact violent punishment.” No one dared defy the guards for fear of being sent to the prison within the prison camp, where prisoners were held for six months in a cell 1.2m by 1.2m. “Most never survived the experience as prisoners were forced to sit for extended periods in cold, muddy water, and if they survived, their flesh was literally rotten.” “The memory that traumatised me the most was the day I saw a man hanged. It was not only the hanging itself, but the fact that the guards forced prisoners to throw rocks at the body and left it hanging there for a week until the birds had pecked at it so much it was beyond recognition. "We watched people being executed all the time.” For many North Koreans who managed to escape to the South, it is the recollection of executions and hangings that have had the most prolonged and devastating effects. Many need lifelong treatment for post-traumatic stress disorder, and even with psychological counselling, they never fully recover. “One third of the prisoners in Camp 15 never made it past three months because of malnutrition. The only food we were given to cook for ourselves was corn and salt. Other than that, they had to find sources of protein in the forests which meant eating everything from snakes to rats, worms and frogs. Many resorted to eating weeds.” Kang, like most North Korean prison camp survivors, vividly recalls his perpetual state of hunger. The prisoners were woken daily at 5am to start work, which would be varied, depending on the season. Three evenings a week they had to attend political lectures until 10pm which largely consisted of going through the writings and sayings of Kim Il Sung. “Of all my family members, the person who was most devastated and affected by the experience was my grandmother. She blamed herself as she had insisted that the family return to North Korea from Japan," Kang said. Despite the morbid conditions, the camp did not make many of the prisoners turn against the regime, precisely because they never had any other reality to compare it with. For them, this was how all governments treated their people, and you had to accept it and hope to survive. When Kang and his family were released, it took years for him to become aware that there was a different world beyond the borders of North Korea. Much of the information he garnered came from banned South Korean radio stations and provoked discussions among him and his close friends. Five years after his release, he and a another former prisoner of Camp 15 hatched a plan to escape across the Yalu river into China. They succeeded in their dangerous journey in 1992. When Kang reached South Korea, he documented his experiences in a book, The Aquariums of Pyongyang, which has been translated into English. Kang has dedicated his life to covertly disseminating information about the outside world to North Korea through USB sticks using a sophisticated underground network. He is high on North Korea’s most wanted list, and has to be guarded around the clock. It is dangerous work, but with the potential to change the perspectives of many North Koreans. Kang's story is testament to the fact that a world similar to the one depicted in the novel 1984 really does exist in our own time, and its horrors are even more grave. Using satellite imagery Amnesty International says the forced labour camps in North Korea have expanded since the time of Kang’s release. But with increasing numbers of defectors fleeing the country despite the tightened border security, the truth of this secret world is being laid bare.