Marlene Swanepoel of Optima College was taking the Pretoria News through the college, at the premises of the South African National Council for the Blind (SANCB). October is Eyecare Awareness Month, and the college caters for people who were either born blind or became visually impaired and need skills to be independent. Visually impaired teachers said one of the biggest challenges the college and the SANCB faced was infrastructure and funding. “There are visually impaired people from the city who are here now to acquire skills, they will need to be rehabilitated back into society, but there is lot that we still need as a college," said visually impaired college administrator Mika Dowling. “Most of society is not aware how expensive life can be for people with visually impairments. Most of the assistive devices they need are imported.” Dowling said to make matters worse, the college’s funding contract from the National Skills Fund was ending in December, and she was not sure if it would be extended immediately as those discussions took a while. “That funding covers the students’ accommodation, meals and tuition fees. Most importantly, it pays for the pack they need when they leave so they can be able to find work. This includes a laptop, speech software and other devices. This is why it is important that companies assist wherever they can.” Visually impaired Ranald Makola, 37, who teaches computer to recently blinded students, said: “Some of the people I must teach computer are previously sighted. They used to use a computer with a mouse, but now they must learn to use one with only a keyboard and depend on speech software to navigate their way on the screen. “The biggest concern for me is most blind people cannot access the software they need to use computers. We use software called Jews and it costs R18000. They need software that can read documents for them so they can work on them, and send and receive e-mails,” he said. Makola said people with visual impairments needed more support from government, the private sector and society. Swanepoel said last Saturday was a good start, when residents convened at Jubilee Square and walked to raise awareness on the challenges experienced daily by those who are visually impaired. “Right now unemployment is very high in the community of the visually impaired, and on top of that they require special and costly devices such as talking microwaves, liquid detectors, colour detectors and (money) notes templates to vary their notes to make purchases. "Take the Perkins Brailler, a pen for visually impaired people. It costs R11500, and 5kg of paper costs between R200 and R300. That is money most people with visual impairment do not have.” Suraya Ismail, a braille facilitator at the college, said South Africa had not yet done enough for the visually impaired. “Some countries accommodate blind people very well even in their public transport system. In South Africa it would be nice if the products we bought in grocery stores had some braille marking. Most of our medicines do not have braille writing, but we also take medication.” City of Tshwane spokesperson Selby Bokaba said: “We remain committed to commissioning new infrastructure, particularly social facilities and municipal service centres. “We will endeavour to make sure that universal access, consideration for people with disabilities and impairments, is embedded in our plans. We are revising the Tshwane Disability Policy, which will be made available for public comment in November 2017," he said. “The policy will create stronger emphasis on mechanisms for funding and sponsorships as well as co-ordinating forums at a local level. “We believe we can work together to maximise the impact of our various programmes and initiatives.” 