The inner city is home to the executive branch of government and is supported by the head offices of multiple national departments. An estimated 50% of all office blocks in the inner city are occupied by government departments. It also includes a large number of embassies. As a city we are home to the second largest number of diplomatic missions in the world, just behind Washington DC. There are also amazing retail spaces and unique markets which offer distinctive crafts  around the CBD. However, for many years our city has not had a healthy heart. It has been plagued by problems and a lack of proper oversight and treatment has seen it fall into neglect. The distribution and use of drugs took hold, leading to increasing levels of crime. Businesses moved out to pursue opportunities elsewhere. Poor public transport planning led to increased traffic congestion. Buildings were not properly maintained and became derelict which led to their occupation by criminals. All of this has clogged up the heart of the city with squalor which has hampered its development. The challenge is ours to take back our streets and the heartland of our city. It is no easy task and it is going to require a multi-pronged approach. Already this year we have invested 18.8% of our capital expenditure, with the aim to support the Inner City Regeneration Programme. We can’t expect to draw investment back into our inner city if, as an administration, we are not prepared to put our own capital forward in developing targeted areas. Long-term strategies within the Integrated Development Plan also identify the development of specific precincts for the city. While doing this we are also tackling the challenge of drugs through our specialised TMPD unit which was created to deal with drug dealers. However, we are also a city that cares for its citizens which is why we are facilitating support to drug users through rehabilitation centres and the funding of NGOs to assist in their reintegration into society. Nyaope abuse is a scourge within the inner city and also contributes to crime levels. To deal with it we have to target the dealers and make sure we get the users the support that they need to fight the addiction. We can’t stop with the problem of drugs. Other criminal elements have taken up occupation in some of the derelict buildings in our city and they must be stopped. We also cannot have landlords who fail to maintain their buildings and allow them to fall into a state of disrepair. This further compounds the problem of urban decay. Our inner city is becoming increasingly congested by traffic making it difficult to navigate and contributing to emission levels. Creating a more accessible environment will not only facilitate the transfer of people more effectively, but also make the inner city more attractive to potential business. With a more strategic expansion of the TRT this will foster access to our inner city and result in people leaving their cars at home when they travel to work. The development of livable streets is an area of innovative thinking that the city is embedding for the future. We want streets that aren’t designed for cars but for people, making it easy for pedestrians and cyclists to get around. The inner city would not be the unique place it is, if not for our informal traders who play an important role in the economy. The Tshwane Fresh Market aims to assist informal traders by facilitating their role in the formal economy and possibly even absorbing some of them into areas such as packaging and distribution. It will also provide an access point for the informal traders and small-scale farmers in the city. With the heart of our city pumping we will establish ourselves as a major destination for investment in the country. Through the successful regeneration of our inner city we will demonstrate that we are serious about taking Tshwane forward and driving development for our people.