South Africa joins Kenya, South Sudan, Tunisia, Benin, Cabo Verde, the Republic of Congo and Togo as African countries that have abolished corporal punishment in all settings, meaning in the justice system, schools and at home. In practical terms the judgment meansparents who hit their children will no longer be able to raise a special defence if they are charged. The judgment does not have the effect of creating a new offence. It has always been a crime of assault to hit a child - even your own child - but if charged, parents had a special defence: If the chastisement was reasonable, they would not be found guilty. It is that special defence that the judgment has removed, through a development of the common law, to bring it in line with the constitution. The judgment arises from an appeal by a father who had been found guilty of assault because he beat his 13-year-old son in a manner that “exceeded the bounds of reasonable chastisement”. The need to protect children in the context of the high levels of child abuse and violence that pervade our society was one of the central reasons for the high court’s finding. The point was driven home in the case by the first, second and third amici curiae (friends of the court) - the Children’s Institute, Quaker Peace Foundation and Sonke Gender Justice, represented by the Centre for Child Law. An expert affidavit by Professor Shanaaz Mathews pointed out the links between corporal punishment and other forms of violence. Until recently, little was known about the national prevalence of overall violence against children, but recent studies have thrown a spotlight on the grim reality. The expert affidavit referenced a recent large-scale community-based study conducted in two provinces (Mpumalanga and the Western Cape) which found that physical abuse and emotional abuse were common in the home with high levels of emotional abuse (76.2%) and physical abuse (58.6%) reported by children. These forms of violence often co-occur and the child’s parent or caregiver is commonly the perpetrator of emotional and physical abuse. Similarly, a community-based study in the Eastern Cape found that, 89.3% of young women and 94.4% of young men (71% of all young people), disclosed experiencing harsh physical punishment by their parents or caregivers before the age of 18. In this study, a large proportion of young people (79.9% of young men and 64.5% of young women) reported having been beaten as a child with a belt, stick or other object, and a quarter of young people said they had often or sometimes been left with marks or bruises. This evidence highlights that more severe forms of harsh discipline are common for children. A significant proportion of young people experienced beatings every day or every week when they were children (27.3% of young men, 33.4% of young women). Qualitative interviews with children revealed that often such beatings were for minor transgressions and only severe 
beatings that resulted in injuries got reported to authorities, suggesting that most experiences of physical punishment remained hidden. Research has shown that there is a link between physical punishment and assault and child murder, which is particularly concerning in South Africa. The child murder rate for South Africa is double the global child murder rate, resulting in three child murders a day. In addition to these extreme forms of violence, research suggests that even “mild” forms of physical punishment can have detrimental effects on children. A meta-analysis that reviewed 88 existing studies showed that “mild” forms of parental physical punishment such as spanking and slapping were associated with 10 unwanted outcomes: Decreased moral internalisation. Decreased quality of relationship between parent and child. Decreased child mental health. Decreased adult mental health. Increased risk of physical abuse. Increased risk of child aggression. Increased risk of child delinquent and antisocial behaviour. Increased adult aggression. Increase adult criminal and antisocial behaviour. Increased risk of the child abusing their own child or spouse in adulthood. Of course the court acknowledged that not all corporal punishment by parents amounted to abuse, and did not imply that one smack by one parent lead directly to very serious abuse. The connection is there, however, in the impunity that society shows towards using violence. Our constitution and the Children’s Act enjoins us to guide parents towards more positive and effective parenting of children, rather than using violence. The high court ruling reminds us of these obligations towards children and demands of us that we find discipline methods that will ensure that we realise a non-violent society. Ozah is a senior attorney and the deputy director at the Centre for Child Law, University of Pretoria.