The University of Pretoria’s psychology graduate has always been good at maths and passed it with a distinction in his matric year. Seeing how few pupils from his former school, Botse Botse High School, studied maths, concerned him. It pushed him and his team to form the UTP programme to turn the situation around. “When we started the programme we wanted to help Grade 12 pupils with application forms and information about universities as we had struggled during our time,” Mkhabelane said. He said when they realised there were more challenges at schools than they had thought, they had taken it upon themselves to make a difference. “It was in 2009 when I went back to the school and found there were only 11 pupils studying maths and that did not sit well with me. I thought the problem was the way they were being taught, but soon realised it was their attitude.” Mkhabelane said pupils had a negative attitude towards maths and in 2011, he, together with his co-founder Precious Sithole, established the Unleashing the Potential programme. He said Abel Maluleka soon joined them and the trio got down to work with the pupils. At first the programme focused on tutoring maths and they started with only eight pupils. Mkhabelane said while tutoring they noticed the challenges were not only the pupils, but the entire community. “Parents were not involved in their children’s school work and that is the biggest challenge that most communities face. And challenging as it is, we are trying to get parents involved.” He said the programme included taking pupils to universities’ open days, and because all UTP volunteers studied at the University of Pretoria (Tuks), pupils were usually taken there. It was during one of the open days at Tuks that one of the pupils, who was good at maths, discovered an interest in actuarial science. “As we speak, Kabelo Etsane is doing his final year at Tuks,” the proud tutor said. Like everyone who wants to see the fruits of their hard work, Mkhabelane said his proud moment was seeing all eight of his pupils at varsity.  “The whole team feels good to see that all our hard work does not go in vain, and that we actually make a difference in young people’s lives in our communities.” Though they started with only eight pupils the programme now has 102 attending. Unlike in 2009 the school now has two full classes of pupils. Mkhabelane said: “Not to take all the credit, this was only achieved through the help of parents, teachers and tutors.” Because of the success of the programme over the years, Mkhabelane and his team now tutor other subjects. These include geography, physical sciences, accounting, history, life sciences, business management, economics and mathematical literacy. The programme focuses on Grades 10 and 11 to prepare them for matric. “Once pupils are in Grade 12 all we do is monitor them and assist them with university applications.”