Regional spokesperson Teboho Joala said: “The judgment was only delivered on Friday. We are looking into it and also seeking an opinion from our legal team. “We need to ascertain whether it speaks on processes or individuals, as well as look into other related matters before we form an opinion on the court decision.” The contract, understood to be considered  a "major financial disaster", was entered into by the City's previous mayor, the ANC's Kgosientso “Sputla” Ramokgopa, and municipal manager Jason Ngobeni. The court ruled that Peu must continue rendering service to the City in terms of an interim service transfer agreement pending the determination of a just and equitable remedy. The parties were also directed to furnish factual information in affidavits  detailing whether the City intended to acquire the smart meter infrastructure from Peu, by not later than November 15. The grant of a just and equitable remedy was reserved and postponed to a date to be determined by the Deputy Judge-President. The court further ordered that all monies kept in the dedicated account should immediately be released and paid to the City. It, however, said the declaration  of the invalidity was suspended pending the determination of a just and equitable remedy. Ngobeni did not answer phone calls or text messages regarding the matter. Executive mayor Solly Msimanga meanwhile hinted that the DA-led administration could lay criminal charges against Ngobeni and others who presided over the deal. Msimanga said: “This is not yet done in any way. We are now vindicated and that is stage one. Stage two is to go and see who has been signing what; who had deliberately lied to the council, and to make sure that those people are held to account. “The accounting officer deliberately misled the council, deliberately signed documents that he was not supposed to have signed, and this is what the judgment proves.” The contract was entered into by the City and Peu in 2013 amid much controversy. It was not put out for public tender, with Ramokgopa justifying the decision by saying Peu made a proposal to the City. In slamming critics at the time, he said his administration could not have another company's intellectual property out on tender. The DA, then on the opposition benches, vociferously opposed the contract. The party branded the contract irregular, saying itwould punch a hole in the City'scoffers. Msimanga said Peu had started doing the work for the City as consultants and was later controversially awarded the tender to supply, install and manage smart electricity meters. He hailed the judgment as a victory for the people of the capital. The application, brought by AfriBusiness, had sought for the review of the original contract between Peu and the City and its subsequent cancellation in May 2015. The then ANC-run municipality terminated the contract with cancellation terms stipulating that Peu would reduce its management fee from 19.5 cents to 9.5 cents for every R1 vended. At the time of cancellation, the City cited that it deemed the contract with Peu not to be financially viable. Despite the cancellation, the City continued to pay Peu, although at a reduced rate, for the 12900 meters already installed. The court was told the City continued to pay an amount of R4million a day to Peu despite the contract termination. An escrow account was created as part of the agreement to hold the reduced fees for the benefit of the City. Also, subject to fulfilment of the terms and conditions of the termination agreement. In terms of the termination agreement, the City was to pay R950 million as a “termination fee” to Total Utilities Management Services, a Peu subsidiary created in accordance with the contract. In July last year, AfriBusiness made an urgent application after it learnt the City was on the brink of paying Peu an amount of R950m. In court papers, the organisation cited that such a payment would have been irregular because it stemmed from an unlawful contract. AfriBusiness spokesperson Armand Greyling explained “a just and equitable remedy” should be determined by the City. It needed to decide whether to purchase the infrastructure already in place. He said his organisation was very pleased with the result after a four-year court battle.