Dr Abdulkadir Adam of Aamin Ambulance service said more people had died of their wounds in the past few hours. Funerals began, and the death toll was expected to rise again. Saturday’s truck bombing targeted a crowded street in Mogadishu, and about 300 others were injured. Somalia’s government is blaming the al-Qaeda-linked al-Shabaab extremist group, which has not commented. Officials said more than 70 critically injured people were being airlifted to Turkey for treatment as international aid began to arrive yesterday. Nervous relatives stood on the tarmac at the airport, praying for the recovery of their loved ones. Overwhelmed hospitals in Mogadishu were struggling to assist other badly wounded victims, many burnt beyond recognition. The attack was one of the worst in the world in recent years. It is one of the bloodiest attacks in sub-Saharan Africa, larger than the Garissa University attack in Kenya in 2015 and the US Embassy bombings in Kenya and Tanzania in 1998. Information Minister Abdirahman Osman said other countries including Kenya and Ethiopia had already offered to send medical aid in response to what Somali’s government has called a “national disaster”. Al-Shabab, Africa’s dmost active Islamic extremist group, often targets high-profile areas of Mogadishu. Earlier this year, it vowed to step up attacks after both the US's Trump administration and Somalia’s president announced new military efforts against the group. The country’s Somali-American leader, President Mohamed Abdullahi Mohamed, has declared three days of mourning and joined thousands of people who responded to a desperate plea by hospitals to donate blood. “This is really horrendous, unlike any other time in the past,” said Dr Mohamed Yusuf, the director of Medina hospital. Exhausted doctors struggled to keep their eyes open, while screams from victims and newly bereaved families echoed through the halls. Mogadishu, a city long accustomed to bombings by al-Shabab, was stunned by the force of Saturday’s blast. The explosion shattered hopes of recovery in a country left fragile by decades of conflict, and it again raised doubts over the government’s ability to secure the seaside city of more than 2million people. The US has condemned the bombing, saying “such cowardly attacks reinvigorate the commitment of the US to assist our Somali and AU partners to combat the scourge of terrorism”. It tweeted a photo of its charge d’affaires in Somalia donating blood. But the US Africa Command said US forces had not been asked to provide aid. The US military has stepped up drone strikes and other efforts this year against al-Shabaab, which is also fighting the Somali military and more than 20000 AU troops in the country. Saturday’s blast occurred two days after the head of the US Africa Command was in Mogadishu to meet Somalia’s president, and two days after the country’s defence minister and army chief resigned for undisclosed reasons. The UN special envoy to Somalia called the attack “revolting”. Michael Keating said the UN and AU were supporting the Somali government’s response with “logistical support, medical supplies and expertise”. - AP