The UNs' cultural arm Unesco has become the keeper of that list. They call it "world heritage", because in an ideal world we are supposed to share our riches. French cuisine is on that Unesco list. Mercifully, the French take a special delight in sharing it. So what of those less fortunate, who are unable to join the millions visiting France to savour their cuisine? For the past three years, thanks to the Alliance Française and the Institut Française, it has come to us. It involves flying a top chef from France to work with local peers, bringing a true taste of that country to selected restaurants and workshops in South Africa. This year it was Chef Pierre-Franck Salamon, who left his 200-seater restaurant for a gastronomic tour of South Africa. I was privileged to join his stop at Brasserie de Paris, which coincidentally has one of the best views of the Jacaranda-laden city bowl. He was joined by Chef Ané Wait producing a menu that, after the obligatory Kir Royale, was matched with excellent South African wines. I am obliged to rely on the educated palates of French Ambassador Christophe Farnaud and Jordan’s chief envoy Ibrahim Awawdeh for the bulk of the popular menu, A special vegetarian meal prepared for me, left me in no doubt, from the word go, of the creator’s kills. So while the table enjoyed an escargot amuse bouche bonbon, I was given a perfectly balanced walnut and pumpkin tartlet . The first course was sesame lacquered chicken wings, cream peas and foie gras Chantilly crush. Mine was cream peas and snap peas with a beetroot Chantilly crush. My second course was creamy risotto with Parmesan, roasted artichoke with hazelnut and a pinch of chlorophyl. I was amazed by the whipped coriander foam on both my dish and the kingklip with croutons and roasted artichoke served to the rest of the table. For the main course, most of the table had slow-roasted pork with sweet potato purée, roasted pistachios and carrots . Awawdeh had a beef filet instead of the pork. I had a ratatouille of smoked aubergine, onion tart satin, courgettes, tomato purée, red pepper foam and polenta crisps. By dessert, we had all reached an entente cordiale and enjoyed a café gourmand. That is a small espresso served a variety of bite-sized bonbons. The restaurateurs of the French capital vie with one another on the sweetness and imagination of their cafés gourmands that rarely appear on their menus. Lucky for us, at Brasserie de Paris, chefs Pierre-Franck and Ané let slip the secret.