Some are trying to repair a car, some crafting furniture, others selling. There are those who labour in the field with hoes and some forced to work in mines. The International Labour Organisation (ILO) report there are 168 million child workers, 85 million of whom are in dangerous jobs. Asia-Pacific borderlands and sub-Saharan Africa are the regions with highest number. The sector children work the most is agriculture. Child labour is not just a problem of underdeveloped countries. There are child labourers in the US and Europe. However, these children are usually responsible for trivial tasks in family businesses helping their parents for a temporary period. They mostly work in simple jobs to earn pocket money during holidays. Experts think that such jobs contribute positively to the development of children and provide them with various skills and experiences. However, this is not the case in sweatshops, in the fields, or in mines to earn a living for themselves and their family. Such environments prevent children from living a life they deserve; require them to comply with unsuitable conditions, and prevent them from enjoying their childhood and going to school. These conditions, claim  experts, undermine children’s potential and harm their physical and mental development. They grow up lacking affection since they are often away from their parents for long periods of time; moreover, their social development is incomplete because they do not receive the basic education that would make life easier for them in the future. Research indicates that the main reason children work is to contribute to the family income. However, the number working to repay family debt is high. There are even cases where children are sold into modern-day indentured servitude and usually have to work for a small amount of money - if any - under very difficult conditions. The biggest danger for children is prostitution and drugs. In East Asia and India, children are either sold directly into prostitution or used in the production of pornographic publications. In East Asia, Latin America and some parts of Africa, children are employed as workers in the production of illicit drugs or as couriers in its distribution. Another area of activity that shouldn’t be associated with children is war and military service. About 250 000 girls and boys around the world are given weapons and sent into combat. In the middle of a war zone, they are often subjected to sexual harassment and rape, or die. Children are forced to use weapons in rebel groups and in government forces. According to a report by the UN, many of the world’s armed groups are making children fight. Afghanistan, Iraq, Syria, Yemen, Somalia, South Sudan, Central African Republic, Nigeria, Mali and the Democratic Republic of the Congo employ child soldiers the most. The report also mentions Libya, Palestine, Colombia, the Philippines and Myanmar. Germany is included because it recruited 1 515 17-year-olds for military service in 2015. What is interesting is Germany argues that children under 18 should not be recruited for military service in Myanmar and Colombia. Even though the ILO reports a significant reduction in the overall number of child workers worldwide, hundreds of millions of children continue to be forced into jobs that are unsuitable for their physical and mental development. The reason child labour is in demand is not the lack of manpower. The wages are very low and they are unlikely to have social insurance, file complaints, or seek their right of redress against difficult working conditions. Children are exposed to all manner of coercion and abuse due to their vulnerability. Considering these problems, how can we prevent children from being forced into jobs that ultimately harm them? The first thing is to get as many countries as possible to sign the UN International Labour Organisation’s agreement for avoiding child labour. At the same time, the UN would track the violations regarding this issue in the concerned countries. Families can be provided with the necessary financial support so that the children won’t be expected to work and contribute to their economy. Social support mechanisms for housing, health and nutrition can be established in places where children work as seasonal agricultural labourers. In addition, schools and teachers may take more responsibility for detecting children who work. The communication between teachers and institutions in charge of preventing child labour can be improved. However, considering that the problem is widespread in poor countries or countries involved in a civil war, it would be difficult to completely prevent, even if sufficient resources are provided and all the necessary measures are taken. More responsibility falls on international organisations such as the UN Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation and the ILO for a solution. Another way is to make special regulations for its prevention in the related legislation and to make sanctions more severe for violators. It is important to take all possible actions to make the world a place where children are not forced to work. In a world where wars rage on and the system of exploitation continues, children will always be the most exploited. To prevent this, it is imperative to first understand the ideological origins of wars and exploitation, and then to undertake serious effort to eliminate them. Then people can see that love and peace are possible, and the world can become a home sufficient for everyone. Until then, every country, every institution and every person is responsible for taking the necessary measures to stop this exploitation. Harun Yahya is an influential Turkish author and opinion shaper who has written 300 books which have been translated into 73 languages