These finalists were selected by the public. They will compete at the final on Saturday, November 25, at the Station-Newtown, next to Mandela Bridge where the judges will decide who takes the crown as Miss Gauteng Exclusive. The winner will take home prizes worth over R150000 and will be appointed as brand ambassador for the Newtown Junction Mall,. Prizes include a night at Lodge City hotel, a beauty course of her choice valued at R6000 at the Pyramid day spa, a three-month marketing course from PTC, a weekend away at Ushaka Marine world Durban, R20000 cash and a one-year gym contract. Pageant participants devote themselves to making a positive impact in their communities while setting out to achieve their own goals. Most finalists have been vocal on the issue of woman and child abuse. “Winning a crown as Miss Gauteng doesn’t mean one is more beautiful than the others. The contestants will be judged on their levels of self-confidence, how they present themselves and how they interact with the judges and the audience rather than on how they look,” said organise, Annwen JordanI. The 20 finalists will show their public speaking skills, achievements, community service and talents in front of the judges, as well as a large audience so that they, too, can be a part of the positive change for female empowerment. "When you see these ladies go out on stage you see courage and self-esteem. I see it as a celebration of women breaking boundaries with self-confidence. To me, that is the real beauty behind the pageant and we would like to thank all our sponsors and associates who believed in our vision,” said Kagiso Selele, a co-founder of the event. The finalists are: Nosipho Sibiya, Reece Klein, Palsesa Kele, Fortune Mbopo, Whitney Jade Harrison, Lethabo Maduwe, Neo Senokwante, Lender Mazibuko, Kelebogile Moruhku, Lebogang Morudu, Lipolelo Matima, Nomfundo Dladla, Nokukhanya Shandu, Nolwazi Thsabala, Pretty Masiteng, Yamkel Mvenya, Zandile Thole. Connie Gwandure, Katlego Mottseleng and Nhlanhla Mokgomola.