Yesterday Mamabolo led the charge to reclaim the illegally occupied and dilapidated buildings in the city, many of which have been unlawfully occupied for more than 20 years. Mamabolo, accompanied by department officials and police circled the city buildings serving illegal occupants with eviction notices. Their first stop was the rather shabby-looking Poynton’s Building. Carrying a list of identified illegal residents, Mamabolo handed out the eviction notices. He pounced on non-governmental organisations and a few businesses, which included two security 
companies. He served them with a 30-day eviction notice. The notice read: “You are currently in occupation of the property that is owned by the Gauteng Provincial Government without a valid lease agreement between you and the department, nor do you have the consent of the department to utilise the property.” Mamabolo said the department had an immovable asset register to identify illegally occupied buildings in the city. The illegal occupants are expected to evacuate within the stipulated time or otherwise give solid and sustainable reasons why they should be allowed to occupy the buildings. “Some of these people have been in the buildings for some time and their livelihoods depend on that. We are also a democratic government, so we must hear people’s side of the story,” he said. Mamabolo said failure by the tenants to give substantial reasons would result in court orders being issued, and finally eviction notices. Several occupants were caught with their pants down, others shifting the blame to alleged landlords. The majority of occupants said they too were subletting from the alleged property owners. “I am angered by the squalor that has gripped our cities and towns, as these hijacked and neglected buildings are not only an eyesore but a den for criminality," Mamabolo said. “The state of this and other illegally occupied or neglected buildings is appalling. "It is unfathomable that people can live in conditions where there is no running water, no lights and, even more disgustingly, no ablution facilities,” said Mamabolo. The department planned to turn the illegally occupied buildings into student accommodation, he said. “We know that Tshwane is home to a lot of students because of its vast number of higher learning institutions. "Some students come from far and wide and are exploited for accommodation. We can assist and make studying easier by providing accommodation for them,” said Mamabolo. He stopped at the grimy and dilapidated Karel Schoeman Building in Nana Sita Street. The vacant building reeked of a heavy urine smell with a sea of garbage on the floors and what looked like “nyaope” users sleeping at the entrance of the building. Mamabolo walked carefully inside the building, with a look of disappointment. “It is unbelievable that a government building could be left to be in such a disgusting state." A fed-up neighbour approached the Pretoria News for help. Christine Jeffrey said the run-down building dragged down the tone of the 
neighbourhood. A security guard who works in the area and did not want to be named, said it was widely known the house was run as a drug den. Again Mamabolo vowed to to clean up the building to make it more attractive to private investors for business.