The children hanged their school bags on the fence and were made to sit or play on the streets. School governing body member Brian Monyela said when he dropped off his child and six others at about 6am, he found a group of children sitting outside. He became worried and wondered why the principal would do this to innocent children. “It’s not fair because we have a written agreement with them regarding the period of of learning,” Monyela said. He claimed the whole issue started when the principal wanted to deregister the centre and change it from being an non-profit organisation to a private crèche in February. “We advised her to wait; we wanted it to be done according to the law, and that it be put in black and white. She agreed, met the parents and informed them about finding alternative centres for 2018." But Monyela said they were shocked when they received an eviction notice on October 8 which had to be appealed against within 14 days. He claimed the principal did not give them time to appeal and locked the gates instead. Amid the confusion, some parents left their children and rushed off to work, he said, while others were not aware of what had happened as their children were fetched at home and transported to school. Contacted for comment, the centre’s principal, whose name could not be established, said: “At this moment I have nothing to say.” Another parent told the Pretoria News that he had been unaware of the eviction notice sent to the governing body. She let her child board the transport to crèche, not realising she would be forced to sit outside locked gates. “I am at work now and I’m not impressed at all because these children are sitting outside... my child was taken by transport to the centre. I thought my child was at crèche and in a safe environment, but instead I received a call that my child was locked out. “I’m uneasy and angry. I even told my family to fetch him because sitting outside is the same as not being there. When they are outside it means the principal doesn’t care about the safety of the children." Another parent said she would find an alternative crèche for her 6-year-old as she no longer trusted the centre. “I’ve been on the line with the governing trying to found out if the crèche will open, but unfortunately my child is still outside. “When I dropped off my child I found a group of children outside. What shocked me was that the gates were locked. I asked one of the teachers what was going on and she told me to not worry as they would open.” However, to her shock, when she called later she was told the children were still outside. “I am worried sick. Anything bad can happen to them. They can get hit by cars or be abducted; that is scary,” she said. She had asked to knock off early to fetch her baby before anything bad happened. Staff member Joyce Baloyi said they did not know anything about the closure and were surprised to find the gates locked when they arrived in the morning. She said they had to find alternative venues and shade to accommodate the children. Monyela said the governing body members made plans with households nearby to feed the minors. They also arranged with a church nearby to accommodate the children until they were fetched later. The Department of Social Department had not responded to questions by the time of going to print.