Gigaba told Parliament in his Medium Term Budget Policy Statement (MTBPS) that the government had been forced to breach its expenditure ceiling after the bailout of SAA by R10 billion and the South African Post Office by R3.7bn. He insisted on cost-cutting measures saying this had saved the country R2bn. Gigaba also warned the economy was not out of the woods yet, saying revenue collection would drop by R50bn. This is the first time this has happened since the 2009 financial crisis. Gigaba said there wouldn’t be new taxes to raise revenue. Sars commissioner Tom Moyane told a media briefing before the MTBPS that there were several factors which had led to the revenue shortfall. “The efficiency of Sars is measured against accepted international standards. We need to take cognisance of the economy,” said Moyane. If the economy was not growing there would be consequences in revenue collection. Many people have lost jobs and companies shut down, leading to low revenues, he added. In the MTBPS  document in Parliament the National Treasury said strong revenue collection had been driven by policy changes that increased rate collection, growth in key sectors of the economy boosted revenue and growth in capital investments attracted imports with VAT and customs duties. “This period of revenue buoyancy appears to have run its course. The National Treasury projects a revenue shortfall of R50.8bn in 2017/18,” said the MTBPS  document. The document said the government was faced with tough choices. In his speech, Gigaba warned that the government must rein in expenditure in government and crack down on SOEs. Governance issues remained a concern to government, he said. Eskom is facing an inquiry in Parliament over tender fraud and corruption. It has guarantees of R350bn. He said a new board of Eskom would be appointed at the end of November. The government will dispose of  some of the assets to recoup the money. Gigaba did not announce any allocation for higher education, saying President Jacob Zuma would release a report on the Fees Commission. The report was given to Zuma by Judge Jonathan Heher in August after he finished his work. On SOEs Gigaba said they posed a huge financial risk. He said if lenders were to call in their loans on Eskom, the fiscus couldn't afford it. Eskom has loans of R350bn to fund its capital expenditure programmes. These include the three-coal fired power stations of Medupi, Kusile and Ingula. He said the boards of Eskom, Transnet and Denel would have to be restructured. Gigaba said before his maiden mini-budget speech that South Africa was in tough economic conditions. “The statement we are making is a candid statement. It puts facts as they are on South Africa’s fiscal framework. "We've had to make difficult decisions that we maintain the fiscal framework and expenditure ceiling. South Africa is trapped in a slow growth zone and this will persist if we don’t change course." The economy needed "not only growth, but more revenue collection". See page 7 and Business Report