TUT conferred on him an honorary doctorate during its spring graduation ceremony yesterday. The 67-year-old professor was honoured in the presence of 556 fellow graduates and university staff. In the audience was proud Hungarian Ambassador to South Africa, András László Király. “This was unexpected for me. I have had an interest in this field since I was very young, so it means a lot to be recognised for it. I always found that plastic is very important because it is material that can be used for many things. “It can be used as construction material that can compete with wood, brick and other construction material. “Plastic is not rubbish to just throw away. I cannot imagine everyday life without plastic,” he said. Karger-Kocsis has been recognised the world over and he said he was proud to have travelled the globe and to be recognised as an expert in the field. He has travelled to Argentina, Greece and Germany, and he holds a total of 21 doctorate degrees, three of which come from South Africa. “I love this country and its people very much. To have the South African sun on my back means a piece of my heart is always here,” Karger-Kocsis said. TUT dean of  engineering and built environment, Professor Ben van Wyk, said it was an important day for the institution as it recognised one of the top three experts in the study of polymer. “The professor is one of the world’s best experts in polymer technology. As a faculty this is a very proud moment because we recognise a scholar who excelled in this field from an early age, since he obtained his first qualification - a diploma in chemical engineering, in 1974. “He is a man of great stature with more than 500 scientific contributions in the field and more than 10000 independent citations. He began his involvement in the TUT polymer department after his retirement and has significantly assisted our masters students,” said Van Wyk. Karger-Kocsis was born in Budapest in 1950 and showed keen interest in this engineering discipline from an early age, before he finally decided to enrol for his first qualification at the Technical University of Budapest. His career kicked off at the Research Institute for Plastic Industry in Budapest. He left for Moscow and obtained his PhD degree in chemical engineering from the Lomonosov Moscow Institute of Fine Chemical Technology in 1983. Ambassador Király graced the ceremony with his presence to congratulate Karger-Kocsis in person. “This is very important to us (Hungarians) because he is one of the world’s best. This also helps to brings the two nations closer together. Hungary at the moment offers scholarships to 100 South African students to study for careers of their choices at different universities in Hungary,” said Király. TUT spokesperson Willa de Ruyter said it was an honour to award an honorary doctorate degree to one of the world's top three experts in this field. “This attests how far TUT goes to collaborate with academic experts in the world. The faculty’s process to nominate who qualified for this honour was intensive and he came out deserving,” she said. Karger-Kocsis’s career has been marked by numerous accolades that include a B1 rating from the National Research Foundation in 2010 and the Dennis Gabor Prize from the Novofer Foundation in 2014.