The main context of this presidential elective race, is that it is governed by the law of the jungle. There is no set organisational framework and defined platform guiding those seeking ascendancy to the highest office. The rules and regulations are in place, but there is no strategic framework that determines the policy and strategy rules of engagement for those contesting for the ANC’s presidency. Thus, in this leadership succession and management vacuum, the outcome will be determined by the strongest faction. The winner may not be the strongest candidate, but a candidate whose faction managed to outplay other factions to the pole position. Then there is the sub-context of the 2019 general elections. Both the elective factions and their candidates are conscious of the fact that the movement’s presidential race has a direct bearing on  the party’s performance in 2019. Hence, this election is fought in two parallel approaches: one is to secure the internal votes from the voting delegates; and two, it is fought in the broader public space. In this instances, candidates do much more to convince the broader ANC aligned voters that they are the appropriate individuals to lead the ANC through 2019. This is partly the reason the media are so heavily involved in this election, but also to secure its own interest, post-2019. The next sub-context is that this elective race takes place against the backdrop of  an organisation facing major challenges within itself, and also as the ruling party. Organisationally, it is increasingly disorganised to a point that it is now increasingly governing itself through the courts. In terms of the state it runs, it faces mounting evidence of ill governance manifested in corruption, patronage, state capture, and failure to manage the economy. The ANC presidential leadership contestants, therefore, are faced with three particular challenges: generate and consolidate the organisation into a cohesive force within South Africa’s liberal establishment; clean up the state and ensure that good governance is the core value in the leadership and management of state affairs; and, revitalise confidence in the capitalist economy. Put negatively, the incoming leadership will be faced with three unhappy constituencies: its own internal card-carrying members; the general voters; and, the middle and upper classes that feel undone by a declining capitalist economy. Thus, SG Gwede Mantashe may be correct to state that the December elective conference is a matter of life and death for the ANC. The outcome of the elective conference will have a serious bearing on the choice to vote, or not to vote for the ANC in 2019. Regardless of the 2019 context, not one of the presidential candidates has risen to that challenge of producing a blueprint for the country’s future. As indicated earlier, this is because the ANC has not produced a strategic framework compelling candidates to address themselves to. With the exception of one candidate, Dr Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, all express criticism of the current state of the organisation, and the decline in good governance within the state apparatus. But then, beyond this criticism, none of them presents a blueprint for a turn-around, either for the ANC itself, or the country. Dlamini Zuma finds it difficult to criticise the current status of organisational dysfunction, and the decline in good governance within state institutions as symbolised by state capture. This is primarily because of her association with the current dominant leading faction as led by President Jacob Zuma. Meanwhile, Cyril Ramaphosa has aligned himself with the dominant public narrative generated by the mainstream media. This includes issues of state capture, corruption, lack of good governance in state-owned enterprises, and the discomfort with president Zuma’s frequent cabinet reshuffling. He has answered the media call to “speak out”.  These issues are not just media creations. They are real, and factual. However, the fact is that Ramaphosa is part of the errant corrective leadership of the ANC. In the same vein, Lindiwe Sisulu has also adopted almost a similar gameplan as Ramaphosa - speak out against the current organisational and state ills. Yet, she is part of the current errant political leadership, and serves as both an NEC member, and cabinet minister. She has been unfairly criticised for “milking” her family ties. However, in the haste of claiming her political space, she has made some unwise political statements against her comrades such as Mantashe. Thus, she has increasingly found herself having to defend herself rather than presenting her blueprint for the future of both the ANC and the country. All three these contenders have not as yet presented a progressive position for the future. Dlamini Zuma has misappropriated herself the Radical Economic Transformation (RET) mantra. She has created the impression that once she takes over, RET will be activated. Yet, this resolution was made in previous ANC conferences. Moreover, there are laws, policies, and programmatic tools and instruments in place right now to effect RET. Nothing institutionally, stops the ANC government from effecting RET, and redistributing land. Ramaphosa has stuck to generic factors - build the unity of the ANC and the alliance, deal with corruption, investigate state capture and recoup monies stolen, entrench good governance, and building the economy. These are issues that anyone who becomes president is expected to deal with. Hence, there is no substance to the notion of seeking a “unity candidate” since anyone becoming ANC president, is expected to unite the ANC. his is a folly principle that almost worked for Dr Zweli Mkhize, until he was de-campaigned by politically branding him as a Zuma proxy. Other candidates’ campaigns have not taken off the ground. These are Jeff Radebe; Baleka Mbete; and Mathews Phosa.  At least Phosa managed to enjoy some publicity by branding himself as a presidential candidate and still mountingcriticism against president Zuma. He has been able to milk the mainstream media willingness to give space and time for any  senior ANC leader willing to unleash sharp criticism against Zuma. The media are an essential part of this ANC presidential elective campaign. It is not being manipulated by the various factions campaigning for their candidates. The media have actually identified itself with some contenders, and inherently, with their factions within the ANC. The media have identified its stake post the Zuma regime, and therefore, advance the accession of one candidate against the other. The only difference in this embedded media, is just the levels of sophistication. Some are just clumsy. While others present a false sense of objectivity. This elective conference therefore, has attracted the attention of many sectors of society - general voters, captains of the economy, and their media institutions. It is a proxy of the 2019 general elections. Thus, there is still the possibility that one among the three candidates reflected above, might pull out of the race. There are still possibilities of some serious jostling ahead of the conference. There is a compelling case that no one wants to be the first ANC president post ’94 who does not become the state president. Hlophe is a governance specialist at the Unisa School of Governance. He writes in his personal capacity