KABELO CHABALALA A FEW years ago I had a conversation with a friend about the ordeal of growing up in a black community, which holds the death of parents who never executed their parenting duties to their children with high regard. 
In particular, fathers who abandon their children. Often, you are expected to take care of things when your absent father dies.
I vowed to never be guilt-tripped by anyone who is going to tell me about the bad omen of not “doing right by my father” when he dies.
The discussion happened several years ago. However, I prayed that wherever my father is, he was well taken care of. It is the least I could do for him. 
Reality TV shows like Khumbule’khaya and Utatako will reveal things to you that are serious eye openers.
Many of the people who go out searching for their fathers find men who are knocking on heaven’s door. They are ailing.
Life somehow has dealt them a bad hand. Or they have played a bad hand at life after being served good cards.
I never believed that the Almighty God could punish me for choosing not to take any part in a life of a man who chose to ignore his parenting responsibilities. 
However, elders have a way of interpreting the situation in pursuit of happy endings.
But I beg to differ. Recently my paternal side of the family contacted me. It was a very weird phone call from one of my older cousins. 
She asked when I was going to be off work. To my amazement, I asked why she was inquiring about when I would be off. She told me my father was not feeling well and she was wondering if I could take a trip to North West to check on him. 
Apparently that is where he is based. I was dumbfounded. 
It has been more than 20 years since he left us. He continued to have a good life outside of his children. 
The biggest shock was when he contacted me himself. 
In his weak, somewhat regretful voice, he said “I am your father”. 
“I know the pain I have caused is unbearable. I can’t imagine how life has been for you without me. I failed you and your sister. I could have been a better father. I want to ask for your forgiveness.”
I listened. Biologically, he is my father. I cannot dispute that fact. Forgiving him is not about him, hence it is something I did a long time ago. 
Nevertheless, why should it take one to be close to death to want to reflect on the bad choices in their lives? 
I am 26 today. Surely my father had all the time to try and get hold of me if he was really remorseful of his decision to abandon me and my sister. 
But here is the part I don’t get. Why do elders like to guilt-trip us about how “bad luck” will follow us, the rest of our lives if we don’t take care of our fathers when they are ill or on their deathbed? 
They have no record of efforts to try to show him that neglecting his basic responsibility was never a good idea. He is my father, if I do anything for him it should be out of the willingness of my heart and not because someone feels that I should. 
I do not owe my father anything.
That man’s failure to be a father to me absolves me completely from any son-to-father responsibilities.
Let’s stop using God and ancestors as bargaining tools to make children feel guilty about the decisions our fathers made.
Dr Mbuyiseni Ndlozi once said: “I could not claim him as my father from a point of view of what fathering is about; he is not. I met him as a young man already, and that was the consequences of his actions. I now had a choice whether to include him in my life or not, and whatever decision I took would be correct, and I could not be victimised for it.”
I choose not to include him in my life. I am still looking for reasons why I never had a place. But most importantly, I am failing to comprehend my paternal family’s ignorance towards being accountable and taking responsibility towards one of their own. 
Norman Cousins sums up what matters the most to me: “death is not the greatest loss in life”. 
“The greatest loss is what dies inside us while we live.”
My father did not even give the father-son relationship we could have had a chance, and that is the greatest loss in life, not him dying.
Kabelo Chabalala is the founder of the Young Men Movement. E-mail: kabelo03chabalala@gmail.com; Twitter: @KabeloJay; Facebook: Kabelo Chabalala