SAKHILE NDLAZI WHILE pet owners spoiled their companions yesterday to commemorate World Animal Day, Kurtis Coetzee of Lynnwood Glen was still licking his wounds after the Tshwane SPCA put down his Golden Retriever. “World Animal Day just added salt to my wound. I miss my buddy; he always slept beside me. We enjoyed great walks and shared great memories for the past 10 years,” he said. Coetzee surrendered his dog Rocky last Saturday because he had moved to a flat and could not accommodate the animal any longer.
He arranged that Rocky stay with an elderly couple while he was looking for suitable 
accommodation. Both Coetzee and the couple agreed that Rocky would spend only four months with them. “They treated him exceptionally well. They showed him love, kept him clean and made sure he went for his much-loved daily walks,” said Coetzee. It was only after the four-month agreement that Coetzee went into panic mode. “I had hoped the elderly couple would extend their time with Rocky after four months,” he said. The couple wanted to travel the world and could not adopt Rocky, he said.  Coetzee then had to take what what he described as the most difficult decision of his life: what to do with Rocky. 
After some consultation, a vet advised to take the dog to the Tshwane SPCA in Waltloo. He did so last Saturday, and a day later Rocky was euthanised. The SPCA said: “His owner signed a form and declared that he surrendered all interest and rights to Rocky to us. Rocky was assessed and observed by our in-house veterinarian and animal welfare personnel. After careful observation and assessment in the kennel environment, his age, potential health concerns, rehoming ability as well as our shelter capacity and the reasons for his surrender, the difficult decision was taken to humanely euthanise him. This was done on October 1.” But Coetzee, who bought Rocky from the Golden Retriever Club in Joburg, said he was sold pipe dreams by the Tshwane SPCA.
“They promised me that they would take good care of Rocky and then make sure that he gets adopted,” he said. He thought he had signed a temporary adoption letter, he said. Coetzee only learnt about Rocky’s death on Tuesday after a friend went to the SPCA to inquire about the pet.
And even worse, he learnt about the SPCA policies through its Facebook post days after Rocky was put down. “I didn’t know that I was signing a death sentence for my lifelong friend,” he said. The Tshwane SPCA said it understood the outrage and anger that some harboured in the matter. It said it had conducted its operations in accordance with the operational rules and policies set out and enforced by the National SPCA. The rules include that once an animal was surrendered to the Tshwane SPCA, it could not be adopted or released into the care of another organisation.