JP Duminy will again deputise for AB de Villiers, and the experience of Hashim Amla returns at the top of the order in a side brimming with quality and experience. The tourists have been blown away by the top-order of South Africa, and they look set to be put to the sword once more. By all accounts, this T20 series was supposed to be a final tune-up for most of these stars for the start of the T20 Global League, but it is now an opportunity to thump out that frustration, and look forward to the T20 Challenge, which starts in a fortnight. Where Ottis Gibson will be observing closely is in his bowling department, without the services of Kagiso Rabada, Morne Morkel and Chris Morris. Lungi Ngidi’s comeback came a week or two too late for consideration, and his extra speed would have been very useful against the poppadum Bangladesh top-order. At the Wanderers on Monday, Ngidi looked good. Really good, in fact, as he built up a head of steam, and then explained that he wasn’t even straining himself in the process. That news will have filtered through to the selectors and coach Gibson, but that will matter not now. At Gibson’s disposal in Bloemfontein, are the likes of Dane Paterson, Beuran Hendricks, Andile Phehlukwayo and Robbie Frylinck, pictured, in the seam department. The ascension of Frylinck to the national team was welcomed warmly by observers of the domestic game. Few have performed as consistently as the burly KZN all-rounder has for the Dolphins over the past few seasons. He gives it a good bunt with the bat, and his tactical nous with the ball means he will
 be a very good option at the death. Frylinck is also as tenacious a competitor as you can find in South African cricket. No cause is a lost one, and his call-up alone has galvanised him and those who feel they are on the wrong side of 30. If he gets a chance to shine, you can be sure that he will not go down wondering. The likes of Paterson and Hendricks will need to strike with the new ball in Rabada’s absence, or else the matches could descend into a shootout between the respective top-orders. What will be also interesting is which spinner gets the nod between Aaron Phangiso and Tabraiz Shamsi. Both offer their own, unique set of skills, but given the unpredictable nature of the seam bowlers, it wouldn’t be a surprise if the more experienced and cunning Phangiso gets first bite.  T20 International squad Hashim Amla (WSB Cape Cobras), Farhaan Behardien (Multiply Titans), Quinton de Kock (bizhub Highveld Lions), AB de Villiers (Multiply Titans), JP Duminy (WSB Cape 
Cobras), Robbie Frylinck (Hollywoodbets Dolphins), Beuran Hendricks (bizhub Highveld Lions), David Miller (VKB Knights), Mangaliso Mosehle (bizhub Highveld Lions), Dane Paterson (WSB Cape Cobras), Aaron Phangiso (bizhub Highveld Lions), Andile Phehlukwayo (Hollywoodbets Dolphins), Tabraiz Shamsi (Multiply Titans)