Former Indian Intelligence Bureau director Dineshwar Sharma was appointed to start a sustained dialogue process with all stakeholders without preconditions, including separatists, and was given complete freedom to talk to all groups and individuals, having been accorded a cabinet secretary rank. According to Home Minister Rajnath Singh, Sharma will initiate a sustained interaction and dialogue to understand the legitimate aspirations of the people in Jammu and Kashmir. On the surface this is a positive move, given the continuing carnage in the Valley, particularly against civilian protesters since the killing by Indian security forces last July of Burhan Wani, a young activist who used social media to inspire youth to join secessionist organisations. Modi’s government, in trying to appease its Hindu constituency, followed a tough line against the separatists, but seems to have realised that its strategy has not worked. For every one militant killed, there were four to five local youths who were joining the militant ranks. Sharma’s appointment came after the state’s police chief, SP Vaid, had said that despite killing so many militants, Kashmir needed a “political initiative”. According to Singh, Modi had talked to all political parties across the political spectrum as to what could be done to find a solution to the Kashmir problem, and the response had been that a dialogue process should be started, which the government now seems to be committed to, although the heavy-handed security actions are likely to continue. Singh has visited Jammu and Kashmir several times in the past three years, and five times in the past year alone, and has recently spoken about coming up with a permanent solution to the problem. The problem with India’s approach is that any long-term solution will need Pakistan’s involvement, although New Delhi seems firmly against any diplomatic process with Pakistan. But any new dialogue track does not remove New Delhi’s obligation to implement the 1949 UN Security Council resolution which called for a plebiscite so that Kashmiris could exercise their right to self-determination. But at least open-ended dialogue is a first step, as long as it is not a cover to buy time and international support, while human rights violations committed by Indian security forces in the Valley continue. The reality is that Sharma follows a long line of interlocutors, the first being appointed in 2001. In 2002 a Track 2 Kashmir Committee was set up but didn’t go anywhere, and in 2003 the Indian government also appointed an interlocutor. In 2004 the deputy prime minister attempted to open a line of communication with the separatists, but nothing came of it. In 2010 three interlocutors were appointed, but Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s government refused to act on their proposals. Now Sharma comes in with authority and a mandate to consult broadly, but then he also comes from the deep end of the state. He served in Jammu and Kashmir in the early 1990s, headed the Kashmir desk in the Intelligence Bureau and dealt with Kashmir as Intelligence Bureau chief. This could suggest that he will target discussions with a fixed set of individuals who he has already been in contact with, or bring a more nuanced understanding of issues that is more realistic. The hope is that Sharma will widen his net and open a direct line of communication with a broad spectrum of stakeholders - especially students of the Valley who for months have been protesting on the streets against the heavy-handedness of the Indian security forces. He should also hold discussions with religious leaders in the Valley - especially the maulanas and maulvis who may support the militants. Then there are the militants themselves whose voices need to be heard, especially the top militant leaders who are currently in prison and under house arrest. The separatists may be open to a dialogue process given that many of their commanders have been killed over the past year. But Sharma’s greatest obstacle to an effective and meaningful dialogue process will still be the hawks in the BJP who are resolutely opposed to any concessions to the separatists. This begs the question as to how any dialogue process could realistically result in India agreeing to hold the long-awaited plebiscite giving Kashmiris the right to self-determination? But in an August speech Modi professed to want to solve the Kashmir problem not through bullets but by embracing the people - now is his chance to prove that he means what he says, and is not attempting to put on a show of goodwill while civilians continue to die and get injured en masse from pellet gun wounds and heavy-handed security force actions.