Following this year’s outbreak, Doctors Without Borders (MSF) began working with local authorities to respond to cases of pneumonic plague in the port city of Tanatave on the east coast of Madagascar. MSF’s international medical personnel are supporting staff from the Malagasy Ministry of Health to provide treatment to the patients currently hospitalised in the Plague Triage and Treatment Centre. The specialised centre was built earlier last week outside the city’s hospital with international partners. “The plague is understandably a scary disease, but quick, hands-on action can drastically lower the number of fatalities and bring the outbreak to an end,” says Luca Fontana, MSF water and sanitation specialist. “Pneumonic plague is treatable and patients have 100% chance of making a full recovery when treatment is started in time. Moreover, people at risk of infection can take prophylaxis treatments that will prevent them from falling ill. The 1 297 cases of the plague included: 846 pneumonic, 270 bubonic, 1 septicemic, and 180 unspecified cases. Since then, 102 people have died from the plague, while 39 out of 111 health districts have been affected. In Tamatave, 259 cases and 14 deaths were registered. Almost every year between September and April, Madagascar records cases of the plague - with the majority being bubonic plague - in the endemic zones in the highlands of the central and north-west of the country. The country is usually equipped to treat it. However, this year, the majority of cases are the more dangerous and transmittable pneumonic plague. People in Madagascar are afraid, universities and schools are being closed, and people are starting to use masks to avoid infection. What makes this outbreak exceptional is the wide occurrence of the most lethal form: pneumonic plague, the only form that spreads from human to human. Pneumonic plague occurs when the bacteria infects the lungs and causes pneumonia. It is contracted when the bacteria is inhaled (primary infection), or develops when bubonic or septicemic plague spreads to the lungs (secondary infection). Pneumonic plague is contagious and can be transmitted from person to person. It is highly communicable under appropriate climate conditions, overcrowding and cool temperatures. Untreated pneumonic plague is frequently fatal. It is the same disease (in different forms) that killed an estimated 60% of Europe’s population in the 14th century. However, nowadays cheap, efficient and widely available antibiotics can treat it, with 100% patient recovery if the treatment is started on time. - MSF