Mandela would be startled that our beautiful land has become a place where killings are  rampant, and ordinary people live in fear and are unable to enjoy basic freedoms enshrined in our constitution. In the past few weeks, the following acts of violence rattled us from our comfort zones and made us see the brutality of killings in our communities: In Lusikisiki, a small town near Mthatha, the capital city of the Eastern Cape, gangsters went about terrorising villagers to such an extent that an elderly woman said in isiXhosa during a radio interview, siyoyika, a si nwabanga (we are afraid, we are not happy). The images of an elderly African woman sitting in a thatched-roof rondavel surrounded by her meagre possessions flashed through my mind. I imagined young men brandishing pangas and guns, breaking into her hut and assaulting her. I asked myself: “What happened to imbeko (respect) for the elderly? What has become of our people?” I wondered. We all sighed with relief when news that the National Prosecuting Authority withdrew charges against umama from Lady Frere (my ancestral home town) accused of stabbing a man to death and injuring two others after finding them raping her 27-year-old daughter. Besides being amazed by her sheer strength, we need to ask ourselves deep questions: Why should villagers live under the mercy of trigger-happy rapists? I hope my family is safe in Bomeni, Lady Frere. In Philippi, near Cape Town, the deaths of 11 people killed in two separate shootings at the Marikana informal settlement have been reported. In KwaZulu-Natal, political assassinations have become the order of the day, with more than 35 deaths reported since the run-up tothe elections. Scenes of chairs being thrown around by delegates at the recent Eastern Cape elective conference are not only an indication of how dangerous factional divisions in the ANC have become, but also reveal the extent to which the ANC has come to condone the culture of intimidation and violence within its own party structures. Just when we thought that as a nation we could resolve such violence as one of our “internal problems”, bloodthirsty criminals took the scourge to the consciousness of the Dutch nation. On September 24, dozens of elderly Dutch tourists who had just arrived at OR Tambo International Airport for a three-week holiday were attacked by armed robbers posing as police. We are made to understand that one of the passengers told the Dutch newspaper that “it was hell”. I wondered if we as a nation had not become the skunk of the world, something that Mandela cautioned us not to be. It seems that our violent tendencies have caused us to be disrespected and disliked by people of other nations. The levels of violence in our public spaces is so serious that Vasu Gounden (founder of the African Centre for the Constructive Resolution of Disputes and a specialist on conflict resolution) argued convincingly that the South African nation is at the crossroads of a civil war or civil peace. A few days after these profound words were uttered at the annual Desmond Tutu International Peace Lecture, our energetic minister of police publicly announced that he is considering deploying soldiers to work alongside the police in Gauteng and the Western Cape to deal with increasing levels of public violence. If I am not mistaken, the DA Premier of the Western Cape, Helen Zille, once made the same request to the president but she was pushed aside merely because she is a premier from the opposition party. Here lies the tragedy of our nation, a governing party that is unable to establish collaborative working relationships with opposition parties. Maybe we will soon become familiar with sights of soldiers in their camouflage carrying AK47s at our shopping malls, especially in December. But these levels of public violence should not be tolerated in our new South Africa. What has happened to us, who has bewitched us? We are a nation that pulled itself from the brink of a racial civil war and emerged with a constitution which is regarded as one of the best in the free world. There are many theoretical explanations on the root causes of violent killings in our country but these theories do not empower us to deal with violence that threatens all efforts aimed at developing a peaceful, prosperous nation. We can’t blame the current levels of violence on our history or on poverty. Something must be done by all of us to rid our communities of this curse of violence; we either pull together or all of us sink. We have come too far to allow Mandela’s dream of a prosperous, peaceful, non-racial South Africa to burn on the 
altar of violence, lawlessness and anarchy. We should not look far for solutions 
to the endemic violence that threatens 
to tear our communities apart. On the KwaZulu-Natal killings, our own Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi made far-reaching proposals on getting to the root of violence in his region. He claims that there are arms caches which were hidden during the height of violence between ANC and IFP supporters in the early 1990s and these arms must be pointed out by all parties and destroyed. Getting rid of dangerous weapons will surely make a contribution towards a long-lasting peace in KZN. Madiba, I am made to understand, argued that it is who you are that determines your approach towards conflict resolution. Who are we then as a nation? Again our own former president Thabo Mbeki elaborated on our national identity in a manner that will forever be forged in our living memory. This is what Mbeki said: "We are Africans, we owe our being to the Khoi and the San, we are formed of the migrants who left Europe, in our veins courses the blood of the Malay 
slaves who came from the East. "We are the grandchildren of the warrior men and women that Hintsa and Sekhukhune led, the patriots that Cetshwayo and Mphephu took to battle, the soldiers Moshoeshoe and Ngungunyane taught never to dishonour the cause of freedom. "We are the grandchildren who lay fresh flowers on the Boer graves at St Helena and the Bahamas, we are the children of Nongqawuse, we come of those who were transported from India and China. "Whatever the setbacks of the moment, nothing can stop us now. Whatever the difficulties, we shall be at peace. "The forces of history pushed all of us to the southern part of Africa to constitute a diverse nation. "Our conduct as a diverse nation is driven by the ubuntu way of life. A way of life that seeks peaceful coexistence with other people and respects the sanctity of life. A way of life that prides itself in the values of motho ke motho ka batho/ umuntu ngu muntu nga bantu (a human being owes his/her existence to other people). "Ours is a nation that was not founded on violence but a nation that has at its foundations peace and reconciliation. Violence cannot and should not define our national identity. "Our national identity, with our shared values of ubuntu, are sufficient enough to move us forward in our noble efforts of reclaiming our country as the hope of Africa where people of all races and cultures live in peace and work together towards building this paradise of Africa." Dr Tutu Faleni (PhD) is a DA member of the North West Provincial Legislature. He writes in his personal capacity.