And it achieved just that at the French ambassador's residence in Pretoria on Wednesday night, when the auspicious Baz-Art exhibition took place, attended by diplomats and artists to create a dialogue through art. Ambassador, Christophe Farnaud, and non-profit organisation Baz-Art hosted an exhibition of 45 graffiti artworks from local and international artists, who previously took part in the International Public Art Festival in Cape Town and the Kaslam Street Art Jam in Soweto. Thanks to an exchange of culture and artist talents, the attendees discovered among many others, Soweto artist Senzart911, Joburg’s Mars and Cape Town illustrator Ruth Frances. They showcased alongside the Frenchman Clement Mougel, Australian Cheeky Observer and the Ukrainian, Ana Kuni. Art enthusiasts circled the French residence and checked out the art pieces that hung off the wall. Some people took pictures of the artworks while others preferred to take the art works home by purchasing them. The artists also shed light on their artworks that graced the walls of the residence. One artist  who stood out was Senzo Nhlapo, known as Senzart911. His latest art, which he defines as African Pop Art, is a kaleidoscope of colours, offset with cubism à la the works of famous artists like Pablo Picasso and Georges Braque. He said although the inspiration for his latest creations comes from African masks, he has also been influenced by art giants such as Pablo Picasso. His recent artworks sport colourful and larger-than-life eyes and long noses usually seen on African masks. The embassy supported urban culture and art in the framework of its cultural diplomacy policy. The exhibition was the continuation of a partnership with Baz-Art that was initiated during the French National Day celebrations this year. At the time, the embassy  commissioned street artists, Senzart911 and Prefixx, to do a live graffiti wall in honour of Paris’ bid to host the 2024 Olympic Games. Their work has since been on display in the embassy building. Farnaud said: “What you see at this exhibition reflects the real South Africa of today - vibrant and vital, colourful and sometimes chaotic, noisy and energetic, and full of beauty too. They may be less traditional but, I strongly believe, are no less important.” He added that the French sought to promote freedom of expression and understanding through visual arts and noted that the mandate of the Culture Ministry also encourages such cultural development and partnerships. Baz-Art was formed this year by Alexandre Tilmans and Sebastien Charrieras with the aim of providing talented young artists with access to recognition, exposure and opportunities to showcase their art. In February, it gathered 50 local and international artists for a first-of-its-kind public art festival in Salt River, Cape Town. Baz-Art offers free art lessons for 1000 children every month in Salt River. The idea is to use art to educate youth about the dangers of gangsterism, violence and drugs. Furthermore, two local women were employed as year-round Street Art tour guides in the area, opening up the district to visitors wishing to have a unique street art experience.