Stand-in skipper JP Duminy reiterated that the mission was the same as it had been in the Test matches and also in the one-day series that followed that. “Bangladesh are a formidable T20 team and we expect a fierce competition in these two matches,” Duminy told the media yesterday. “The goal for us, as it would have been in the Test and the one-day series, is to win the series 2-0. That will be our main focus.” The Proteas are well aware, though, that the shortest format probably presents the best opportunity for an underdog to pull off an upset. “The shorter the format, the closer teams come together,” Duminy, pictured, warned of the suffering visitors, and what the Proteas expect from them in the two-match series. “There are two ways to look at it. It can be a dangerous thing, because they have nothing to lose. Or, they could have one foot on the plane, ready to go home. The main focus for us as a team is on what we want to get out of this series.” On that front, there is much for individuals to gain from the next two assignments. For one thing, there is the very good chance that Dolphins all-rounder Robbie Frylinck makes his international bow as a 33 year-old, having forced the selectors to look his way through sheer consistency. “It’s a great opportunity for him if he gets the go ahead,” Duminy said of the franchise cricket veteran. “It doesn’t matter at what age you come in. He has come in with a lot of experience and has played many games for his franchise. The experience is there, and the key for him is to execute those skills under this type of pressure,” he explained. Frylinck may not have done it at quite this level, but he thrives under the spotlight. It is he that the Dolphins routinely chuck the ball to in tight situations, and he has been beaming with pride ever since he got the call-up. If he does get the nod to play for his country, Frylinck will not shy away, or be frightened by the brighter lights - and they are extremely bright in Bloemfontein, these days. Beyond Frylinck and his bag of tricks, Duminy will also have the emerging Dane Paterson and left-armer Beuran Hendricks at his disposal. The former has come in for tap, and also struck with the new ball in the one-day series, and a solid showing this week won’t hurt his chances to stay in the full-strength squad as a handy option. Of course, if the Proteas bat as they have during the tour, it may not matter much how the bowlers fare. The likes of Hashim Amla, Quinton de Kock and AB de Villiers have all cut loose in the past month, and there is a middle order absolutely desperate to be unleashed with a licence. Duminy, now retired from Test cricket, wouldn’t mind a decent hit out himself, because it will be a while before he is in national colours again. So, though some may see this T20 International series as little more than an audition for Bloemfontein’s new floodlights and a chance to fill up Potch, there are plenty of private ambitions at work over the next few days. Bangladesh are nursing pride, and the Proteas are chasing progress. The general consensus is this will be case of progress over pride.  LIKELY TEAM South Africa: Quinton de Kock (wk), Hashim Amla, AB de Villiers, JP Duminy (capt), David Miller, Mangaliso Mosehle, Andile Phehlukwayo, Robbie Frylinck, Dane Paterson, Beuran Hendricks, Aaron Phangiso