Regional SACP secretary Apson Makaung lambasted the ANC political honchos for being aloof by excluding alliance partners in decision-making processes. “There is only one component of the alliance that takes the decision. For the past five years, the relationship between the SACP and the ANC has not been in a good state regardless of our endeavour to persuade them. They never listened to our request,” Makaung said. He called on the ANC leaders to be replaced by those who would take the people of Tshwane seriously. “They must bring in cool-minded people. They have never listened to people. How do you bring back a failure? We want people who will take the people of Tshwane seriously,” he said. Makaung said the situation among alliance partners remained on a knife-edge and was caused by the ANC’s ill-disciplined leaders.  Singling out Ramokgopa’s attitude towards the alliance partners, Makaung said: “Sputla once told us that we will march until we get tired.” According to him, other organisations such as Cosatu and South African National Civic Organisation, had a good working relationship with the SACP. “We are having a problem with the ANC. Even after the loss of the municipality during the 2016 municipal polls, the ANC failed to learn from its mistakes, he said. “Since the local elections, we have never met as the alliance. When we tried to invite them to our meeting they didn’t come,” Makaung said. Asked about the SACP’s preferred candidates for the executive positions, Makaung said: “We are an independent party and they are an independent party. We don’t want to interfere with the internal processes of the ANC.” Makaung said the divisive state of the alliance at national level was also evident at the regional structures. ANC regional secretary Paul Mojapelo declined to comment on statements that there was no good relationship between the parties and that no meeting had taken place since the party lost its grip on power. Mojapelo said: “I wouldn’t want to comment on that and I don’t want to talk to Comrade Apson via the media. We are hard at work trying to build the organisation and we would want to desist from anything that would suggest otherwise.” Regarding the call for new leadership, he said: “The only process of appointing leaders in the ANC is through branches and it is not going to be possible to do that through any other person.”