*  A new era with new thought: Socialism with Chinese characteristics has entered a new era. The CPC has given shape to the Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era, a long-term guide to action that the party must adhere to and develop. It builds on and further enriches Marxism-Leninism, Mao Zedong thought, Deng Xiaoping theory, the Theory of Three Represents, and the Scientific Outlook on Development. It represents the latest achievement in adapting Marxism to the Chinese context. * Great modern socialist country: The CPC has drawn up a two-stage development plan for the period from 2020 to the middle of the 21st century to develop China into a “great modern socialist country”. In the first stage from 2020 to 2035, the CPC will build on the foundation created by the moderately prosperous society with a further 15 years of hard work to see that socialist modernisation is basically realised. In the second stage from 2035 to the middle of the 21st century, the CPC will, building on having basically achieved modernisation, develop China for a further 15 years into a great modern socialist country that is prosperous, strong, democratic, culturally advanced, harmonious, and beautiful. The principal contradiction facing Chinese society has evolved to be that between unbalanced and inadequate development and the people’s ever-growing needs. The needs to be met for the people to live a better life are increasingly broad. Their material and cultural needs have grown, as have their demands for democracy, rule of law, fairness and justice, security, and a better environment. *  Economy: China’s economy has been transitioning from a phase of rapid growth to a stage of high-quality development. In developing a modernised economy, the country must focus on the real economy. China will support state capital in becoming stronger, doing better, and growing bigger, and turn Chinese enterprises into world-class, globally competitive firms. China will leverage the fundamental role of consumption in promoting economic growth and improve the framework of regulation underpinned by monetary policy and macro-prudential policy, and see that interest rates and exchange rates become more market-based. * Opening up: China will not close its door to the world; it will only become more open. China will implement the system of pre-establishment national treatment plus a negative list across the board. China will significantly ease market access and protect the rights and interests of foreign investors. *  Law: The CPC will set up a central leading group for advancing law-based governance in all areas. It will strengthen oversight to ensure compliance with the constitution, advance constitutionality review, and safeguard the authority of the constitution. *  Ecological progress: The CPC has incorporated Beautiful China into its two-stage development plan for building a great modern socialist country. The modernisation is characterised by harmonious co-existence between man and nature. China will establish regulatory agencies to manage state-owned natural resource assets and monitor natural ecosystems, and develop a nature reserves system composed mainly of national parks. * Armed forces: By the year 2020, military mechanisation will be basically achieved, with IT application coming a long way and strategic capabilities seeing a big improvement. The modernisation of the national defence and armed forces should be basically completed by 2035. The people’s armed forces will be transformed into a world-class military by the mid-21st century. * Diplomacy: No matter what stage of development it reaches, China will never seek hegemony or engage in expansion. *  Party building: Having gained overwhelming momentum in its fight against corruption, the party is determined to secure a sweeping victory over the greatest threat to the party. - Xinhua