Society was shocked even more to learn that the three teachers included a  principal. This was a very sad story that demonstrated how some schools have wolves in sheeps' skins walking the school corridors. We do not know what happened to the pupil, maybe she became a mere statistic and we soon forgot about her as we continued with our lives. Maybe she went back home in a village to hide her shame among many girls who probably have similar stories to tell, thus making her normal. Some have argued that a few powerful men who have violated young maidens would simply bring money as compensation to destitute families who would appreciate this “kind” gesture. We do not know what happened to the three teachers who raped the child who had gone to school to search for some future that would redeem her family. But we continued with life and soon disremembered the incident. Many young girls continued a doomed life in silent but precarious schools. The recent exposé of sexual violence in schools demonstrates how deep the problem may be in these institutions. It also confirms that there are numerous predators who roam our schools and many of them are people who are trusted by school managers. What happened in the Soweto primary school where 87 girls were molested by the security guard is a huge tragedy that may be symbolic of many hidden stories in our society. One does not want to think that there may be more children who were violated whose parents have decided not to come out publicly. There may be pupils who have decided to keep quiet to avoid ridicule or even reproach from their own families and peers. Our schools stand accused when we all know that they are far from being the humanising institutions that we want them to be. What is even more horrific is the fact that the cited schools all serve mainly poor families. These are schools built in townships and to many indigent families these are first and last choices. There are several high-performing schools in the townships and rural areas that need to be celebrated at all times. But it is also true that countless poor families are trapped in underperforming schools that intimidate and dehumanise pupils. There are also several sad implications of the sexual violation of pupils in these schools. Teachers may never know what negatively influences the performance of some of their failing pupils. The teaching profession is already facing various challenges including lack of resources but they may never know the negative influences upon an abused child. Teachers may find it even more difficult in classrooms where the pupils are not empowered to talk about life, let alone about sex. Even those teachers who try to bring the humanising aspect may struggle when the pupils do not open up. The latter has broadened the work of the teacher who now needs more skills to deal with children who try to survive in trying schools. Few teachers will triumph in many adverse conditions, yet determined teachers will fight for the good of their pupils. When they go outside the school premises, many children do not have ears to listen to their personal struggles and therefore conscientious teachers who care may be the last hope for numerous children. Teachers with courage will stand up for their pupils who otherwise will have no adults who would stand up for them. Various teachers will claim that they were never prepared by their professors to deal with the challenges that prevail in today’s schools, but it will be fulfilling to fight for one’s pupils. The quagmire of course is when the same defenders become perpetrators who hound their pupils with their sick desires. We have arrived at a time when learning areas such as life orientation should meaningfully teach children about not only sexuality, but about being courageous and positive as well. From the first grade, our classrooms should teach children to be assertive as this can also be the basis of effective classrooms. Children should be able to constantly share their experiences with their teachers and other trusted adults without fear. This means that pupils should be supported in building rapport with significant others. When pupils do not have this, especially the abused, they suffer in silence. This is the reason why effective schools should have special teachers that pupils can trust and open up to all the time. One of the failures of the current education system is the absence of school guidance specialists who would nurture and understand the emotional and intellectual development of pupils. In these troubled times, schools are in desperate need of these professionals. We know the problems our children have in choosing careers. For example, they complete their Grade 12 without any clue as to which direction they will take after matric. One is certain that with school guidance specialists, we could alleviate such unnecessary challenges. We could also in the process help our children to talk about their problems. Among others, the rampant suicide incidents among school-going youth may be because they do not have people in whom they can confide. While we were still shocked by the AB Xuma Primary School unfortunate incident, we heard of another one in a Mamelodi secondary school last week where a scholar patrol raped a girl child from a matric dance. This rape problem may be much bigger than we thought and it would make any parent uneasy to see their children off to school in such times. Yet we should not cease looking for schools that promote social justice principles. The problem is huge and needs many role-players including our labour unions and even student leaders. We are a society that continues to confuse young people; that schools are the conduit to a better future, that through school they would break the cycle of poverty in many families. Many families believe this and so do the pupils who are keen to change the fortunes of their families. Yet, the violence that children suffer convinces them that even schools cannot be trusted. A primary school child raped by a supposedly reliable adult can hardly complete school without fear. Some drop out long before they get to Grade 12. For those who make it, it may be a torturous journey where they go to school unsure of the adults they see. But the entire society is to blame, it shows deep sickness when young primary school children are not concerned about multiplication tables but are more scared of the malevolent scholar patrol whose wanton cravings make him an animal. It should concern us when girl children at high school are not thinking about their careers after school, but are more concerned about avoiding the granddad standing at the gate whose sickness seeks to devour them. Vuyisile Msila is a director at Unisa’s Change Management Unit and writes in his personal capacity.