I’m a sucker for good food, good entertainment and good company, which I have found in these fabulous places. The restaurants at both squares are awesome and I love the diversity. The days of driving to Johannesburg to attend concerts are over. I look forward to the opening of the Sun Arena, and attending future concerts Sherona Rambujan  Pretoria is a laid-back, diverse place of work and residence and rapidly growing with infrastructure. With the Menlyn Maine Precinct. Innocentia Bogatsu  Why do I like Tshwane? It is an energetic city, full of beautiful people and a diverse culture, nine languages combined into a single tongue. It gives me pride and happiness. Fortunate Legoabe  I like Pretoria/Tshwane for its uniqueness; it is a great tourist attraction destination. It has interesting places like the State Theatre, Time Square in Menlyn and Pretoria’s National Botanical Gardens. It also has the Voortrekker Monument, Loftus Stadium and the Union Buildings. Cavin Derrick Adams  Pretoria undoubtedly has the best weather in the WORLD. So much to do and affordable. A must “stop” for all international visitors. Friendly, welcoming city. Ken Jones  The truth about Tshwane, it’s got a unique and different vibe compared to any other city/province. Remember it’s the capital city of South Africa. Viva Tshwane, viva. Mahlangu December Ephraim  Simply put, Pretoria is the most beautiful city. It has the best weather and the friendliest and most helpful communities and by far the best restaurants. Lynette Adams  It’s the capital city of South Africa and has the most beautiful scenic view with the Jacaranda trees painting the city purple. The Union Buildings displaying the rich political history depicted by Mandela’s statue. Jacob Tsibogo  I was born in Tshwane and who does not love Tshwane for the Jacaranda trees this time of the year with its purple flowers blooming and when the wind blows and it rains you can see only the streets laid with purple. I love the fact that Tshwane boasts the University of Pretoria and also we have the Gautrain Station in Hatfield, we have Loftus Versveld Stadium in Eastwood Street. Jessie Meyer  I love Tshwane because of its cleanliness and also the beauty of the Jacaranda trees along the roads. Andile Mayisela  I was born here, emigrated, and then immigrated. Met the love of my life here in this beautiful city and settled down: never going to leave it again. Amy Clark  Tshwane is such a beautiful cosmopolitan town with everything within reach. Not forgetting the splendour of the falling leaves of the Jacaranda leaves at this time of the year which converts the town to blue due to the Jacaranda leaves. Lulama Mayedwa  I love Pretoria because of its beautiful scenery, especially when the Jacaranda trees are in bloom. I have not seen a more beautiful sight than Pretorius street on a rainy day. Malcolm Jemane  I have been a proud resident of Pretoria/Tshwane since 1996 to date and enjoy every moment. The unique Jacaranda trees at this time define my Pretoria/Tshwane and gives it a distinction amongst all the cities in the world Stanley Sidimela  I love Pretoria News because it connects me to the city and its people, I get to know what’s happening in and around our city and internationally. Innocent Mokgotho