“We go way back, from our days at Rockville Hungry Lions,” Moloi, pictured, said. “I owe him a lot for most of the things that I have achieved. He is not just a big brother but also someone who has been a trailblazer, setting the benchmark for me to follow. He used to coach me when he was doing matric playing for the A team, while I was playing for the C team. He would tell me that I shouldn’t play this football for whistles because it will not take me anywhere. “He constantly pushes me. When I was doing matric and training with Jomo Cosmos, before I signed for Orlando Pirates, he kept me on my toes and ensured that I juggled both. Pitso, KK (Julius Sono) and Black Sunday (Johnny Masegela) helped shape me. Pitso used to tell me that 'you are going to be a big star, but the problem is that you don’t have anyone to tell you k*k. I will tell you k*k.' Pitso doesn’t even take me aside to give me a tongue-lashing. He does it in front of people because he knows that I have a thick skin. He will always be my hero.” These “brothers” will come up against each other on Sunday at Sisa Dukashe Stadium in the last 16 of the Telkom Knockout that pits the Chilli Boys against Mamelodi Sundowns. This match has a number of subplots, from the rivalry these two teams have as they always try to outplay each other in possession and the scoreline. There’s also the fact that the Port Elizabeth side comes into this match on a high after winning their first match under Moloi, while the Brazilians suffered back-to-back defeats to Kaizer Chiefs and AmaZulu. But the main plot is the brotherhood rivalry between Moloi and Mosimane. “After the win against Cape Town City, I said I can finally sleep (as the team had played five successive draws before that win),” Moloi said. “But now that this match is coming, I am having sleepless nights. People might say that Sundowns aren’t doing well, but I know Pitso. He hates losing. He is a fighter. He will not want to lose to me. Now that I am older, I hang around with him and his circle of friends from Rockville who were in the A team when I was in the C team. Whoever will lose on Sunday will never hear the end of it. Rockville will talk about this for a long time. It will be a challenging and entertaining game.” Moloi has stabilised the Chilli Boys’ ship since he took over from Dan Malesela in September. Malesela was given the axe three games into the season, further proving that managing Chippa is not for the faint-hearted as owner Chippa Mpengesi is never afraid to wield the axe. “It will take an offer out of this world for me to leave Chippa,” Moloi said. “I have found a home. I’ve had lengthy discussions with the chairman and we are on the same page. He is ambitious just like I am. I want to take this team to the Caf Confederation Cup. If Platinum Stars did it, we can also do it. If we don’t win the Nedbank Cup, we should finish third. I know that this is a daunting task, but we can do it. I also want to make our home stadium a slaughter house.”