The Baroka FC goalkeeper returned from London to a hero’s welcome at OR Tambo International airport on Tuesday despite losing out on the award for the Goal of the Year. His family and Bakgaga fans sang and chanted his name, much to the embarrassment of the shy Masuluke who says that he is still adapting to the attention he has been getting. The 24-year-old sat next to Italian goalkeeper, Gianluigi Buffon, at the London Palladium on Monday during the Fifa awards ceremony. Buffon bagged the Goalkeeper of the Year award, as well as being named in the Best XI, while Masuluke left empty-handed. But Buffon had some words of encouragement for the lad from Giyani who made international news with his goal from a bicycle kick in optional time in a league game against Orlando Pirates last season. “People were recognising me everywhere I went in London,” Masuluke said. “They would grab me and ask for pictures.  Buffon told me, ‘you scored a beautiful goal. I was expecting you to win the award’. But that didn’t happen. You know, football can kill you.” That line, ‘football can kill you’, has been made famous by the charismatic Thobejane, who says it after running the gamut of emotions in a match. Masuluke also experienced an emotional roller-coaster in the English capital. The disappointment of losing out on the award was eased by the love and acknowledgement he received in London, though. England striker Harry Kane and Real Madrid’s Cristiano Ronaldo said Masuluke’s goal was their preferred choice for the Puskas just before Giroud was named the winner for his scorpion kick against Crystal Palace. “Neymar also came to me and asked 'Are you Oscar-ryn?' I said yes. But I am not Oscar-ryn, I am Oscarine,” Masuluke said. “I was motivated to keep doing well when I heard Ronaldo say my goal was his choice. He is the best player in the world. He won the main award. He works hard to be at the top and be the best in the world. I am also working hard to be the best... This trip showed me a world I never thought I could be a part of. Now that I have experienced it, I want to be the best I can be.” Giyani will host one big bash this weekend in honour of Masuluke, who has more pressing issues... like fighting for his place in the starting XI. He will look to make his first start against Cape Town City on Sunday in the Telkom Knockout last 16, having been on the sidelines in the club’s bright start. “The only thing I can tell you is that I will repeat what happened (scoring a spectacular goal) so that I can go back there and represent the country again, but (next time) come back with the award,” Masuluke said. “I will try and do it again by going to the (opposition) box if we win a corner. I trust myself.”