The scientific study was conducted by Master’s student at Tshwane University of Technology’s Adelaide Tambo School of Nursing Sciences, Suzan Mathikhi. The 53-year-old said her study started in 2013 and was supported by existing literature that “physiologically, the male private parts should not be warm”. Mathikhi was speaking at the launch of a mobile clinic at Dairy Mall taxi rank, formerly known as Bosman taxi rank, in the city centre on Friday. Taxi drivers were the most ignored target group despite them being exposed to danger due to running engines built under their seats, she said. “There was no similar kind of research done on the subject before. The only research I know of was done in KwaZulu-Natal, but its focus was on HIV issues,” Mathikhi said. The heated engine affected fertility and sperm cells of the drivers, she said. “The problem can cause them to develop prostate cancer.” The findings of her study was presented to the City’s Road and Transport Department, which decided to partner with the university. Mathikhi said: “After we presented the findings, the department  said we need this partnership.” As part of her study, she talked to taxi drivers in Soshanguve, Menlyn, Bosman, Marabastad and Bloed Street. The risk of getting prostate cancer from spending time on the seat with a heated engine underneath was among health problems affecting taxi drivers, she said. “It is one of the issues that came up as an occupational health risk. The way most taxis are structured is not occupationally safe.” The study also raised issues of hygiene at taxi ranks, especially those without proper toilets. Mathikhi said: “We've seen some taxi drivers taking a pee in full view of everyone.” The study also highlighted the taxi drivers' anger, which Mathikhi said could a result of the stressful conditions under which they worked. “They are resting in their taxis and on the road they are more likely to feel sleepy. “They are forced to work more than 16 hours a day,” she said. Mathikhi, who started training as a nurse in 1983 and became a nursing lecturer in 1992, said the solution to taxi drivers' health problems should be through mobile clinics at taxi ranks. “Taxi drivers don’t have time to go to clinics because of the nature of their work. With mobile clinics, they won’t have to stand in queues.” Mathikhi said had enrolled for her PHD degree and would focus on advocating for intervention from stakeholders as part of the solution to health risks faced by drivers. She conducted her study under the supervision of Professor Tendani Ramukumba, who shared the sentiments that taxis were risky due to the engines being under the front seats. “The male private parts are not supposed to be warm. The engine is warm, therefore it  destroys their manhood. When this happens they tend to suffer prostate cancer,” said Ramukumba. She said Mathikhi’s PHD studies would also research the levels of prostate cancer among taxi drivers. “Taxi drivers also told us they have problems with their manhood. We suspect it is because of fatigue. They are up early in the morning and go back home later at night. They are working in the stressful environment and when they get home they are so fatigued that they can not attend to their partner,” Ramukumba said. Meanwhile, MMC for Roads and Transport Sheila Lynn Senkubuge said the mobile clinic was a continuation of a similar facility launched at Belle Ombre taxi rank in Marabastad in partnership with the Tshwane taxi industry last year. “We want to make sure we roll out at every taxi rank. The taxi drivers are on the road every day. They never get the chance to go to clinics. By the time they arrive at the clinic it will be closed,” she said. She said the clinic would afford taxi drivers and queue marshals an opportunity to have voluntary medical check-ups and counselling. “Our undertaking to bring some public health services and related professional assistance to wherever our residents are is coming to fruition. This expansion is also informed by the response we are receiving at Belle Ombre, which served as a pilot  point,” Senkubuge said.