The imminent legal action follows a week after the traders' stalls at Denneboom railway station were flattened by a bulldozer, allegedly on the orders of the developers, Isibonelo Property Services. Traders claimed that in so doing, the developers flouted a court order barring them from making it difficult for vendors to trade in the area. Their legal representatives, Lawyers for Human Rights, were expected to formally file court papers tomorrow at the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria. Attorney Louise du Plessis said the impasse between the two parties would head to court after numerous letters were sent to developers and the city administration. The looming court action will demonstrate that developers and the City were in contempt of the court order, according to Du Plessis. She said the City was also to blame for its failure to allocate alternative trading spaces to traders. “In terms of the previous court order, the developers and the City were not allowed to make it difficult for traders to trade,” she said. Du Plessis said Lawyers for Human Rights had already sent 200 completed forms of traders to the City and told it to do the allocation. The City had, however, not responded to the lawyers' request. Du Plessis said: “It is extremely shocking that a big company like Isibonelo could ignore the court order. It is such a shocker that they are ignoring the court order.” She said in terms of the court order, Isibonelo and the City would have consulted Lawyers for Human Rights if they were unclear about the interdict. The court order stipulated that hawkers accommodated inside formal structures must be allocated a container, she said. Isibonelo provided 40 containers, she said. Lawyers for Human Rights, she said, were more concerned about traders not yet relocated from the construction site. It was estimated that at least 150 more containers were needed. MMC for Economic Development Randall Williams said he was not aware of the intention by Lawyers for Human Rights to take the City to court. He said correspondence may have been done through the municipal manager’s office and not his, which had not yet received any letter from the lawyers. He also "wasn't aware" of the destruction of stalls. Isibonelo head Shadrack Mthethwa said he was out of the country and had not received any letter from Lawyers for Human Rights. He referred enquiries to project manager Nthabiseng Makobe, who wasn't immediately reachable. For months, the two parties had been entangled in an ongoing fight, with developers accusing hawkers of refusing to vacate the land on which part of the mall must be built. On the day of the stalls' demolition, taxi drivers joined the  fray by protecting people hired to bulldoze the hawkers’ stalls. Some drivers said traders were stumbling blocks to development in the area by refusing to vacate the land where part of the mall had to be built. The vendors, on the other hand, rejected accusations that they had refused to make way for the mall construction. They accused developers of failing to keep their promise of providing them with alternative stalls at a temporary venue where they were supposed to operate until the mall construction was completed. The demolition came two weeks after a visit by Premier David Makhura to view the project. Makhura was briefed about the impasse between the traders and developers. He promised that the provincial government would intervene by making sure that the mall construction continued with no hindrances. Mthethwa told Makhura that 500 jobs could be lost as a result of the refusal by traders to move from the site. The traders’ leader Mary Choma said only 40 containers had been made available to them despite traders having had 226 stalls in Denneboom. She said the containers were located 500m from the station, where most of their customers came from.