His body was flown to Vallegrande, and exhibited to the press. That was when the iconic photograph of a Christ-like Guevara was taken and made famous, along with the photo Alberto Korda shot in Havana in 1960, of Guevara with his starred beret. Today it is on millions of T-shirts and posters across the world - a world he wouldn’t recognise. Half a century since his death, Guevara’s legacy and relevance is practically nil, in terms of his aspirations and achievements. He became a symbol of historical changes that he did not identify with, nor fight for and that only came of age after his death. He is remembered far more for the events that took place less than a year after he perished, when in 1968 hundreds of thousands of young people took to the streets in capitals and universities across the globe and changed the way they, their children and today their grandchildren live. Guevara, an Argentine doctor, stood for various ideas and causes. All failed or were discarded. Initially he was a passionate advocate of the young Cuban Revolution’s alliance with the Soviet Union, but by the mid-1960s he became a critic of the crucial role Moscow was playing in Cuba. That mattered little. By July 1967, when the then-premier Alexei Kosygin visited Havana, Fidel Castro had aligned his regime unconditionally with the USSR. In August 1968, Castro supported the Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia, and the end of the Prague Spring. Similarly, Guevara opposed Cuba’s former dependence on sugar cane. But by 1970, Castro had committed his country to producing 10million tons of sugar for the Soviet Union, disrupting the island economy, yet nonetheless failing to achieve his goal. Guevara also fought for the creation of a “new man” under socialism in Cuba, and against the vices of the former regime, centred on tourism, prostitution and gambling. Little did he know that not only would there be no new man in Cuba but nearly 60 years after the revolution, one of Cuba’s main sources of income is still tourism. Widespread prostitution has endured for half a century, at levels not dissimilar to those during the Batista era, and thousands of Cubans try to leave the island nearly every day, in any way they can. Guevara was known for seeking to spread the Cuban Revolution. He sought to do so as an insightful, but ultimately mistaken observer and participant in what occurred in the Sierra Maestra: revolution through the barrel of a gun. He preached the armed struggle to young fans across Latin America and in Africa; 
he gave his life for it, and they lost theirs. Until 1979 in Nicaragua, not one of the fires he or Castro tried to light throughout the region survived, let alone burst into flames. The results were not glorious snapshots of the barbudos entering Havana in January 1959, but rather military coups, torture, disappearances and thousands of student lives lost in vain. When the left finally reached power in many Latin American nations, its path and features did not at all resemble Guevara’s vision. Gifted labour union and indigenous leaders, charismatic intellectuals, scheming military officers and persistent mayors and legislators made their way gradually up the ranks of their political parties, their electoral systems and governments. Once in office, they did not govern like Guevara would have wished. They were everything but idealistic revolutionaries: social-democratic reformers, moderate globalists, nationalist demagogues, corrupt couples or dynasties and would-be dictators. Some extracted their countrymen from poverty and inequality. Others strengthened democratic institutions. Others plunged their countrymen into destitution and violence - as in Venezuela. But the millions of young people everywhere who wear Guevara’s effigy on their chest are a product of what he came to symbolise. The students who took to the streets just months after his death were already carrying posters and banners of the martyred revolutionary. They, unlike their hero, did largely change the world, but not in the manner he would have hoped. Theirs was an existential, cultural, generational and anti-war rebellion that laid the groundwork for freedoms today, at least in the Western nations, Latin America and parts of Asia. Women’s freedom to use their bodies as they see fit and to fight back against abuses; the freedom for people of colour to elect who they wish and fight racism; the freedom for university students to design and execute educational plans; the expanding possibility of people with different sexual orientations to come out: all these joys of life in the 21st century stem from those years in the 1960s. Guevara became a cultural icon, not a political or ideological one. Today’s world is better - it is far less poor, less unequal and far more tolerant, diverse and enlightened. So which Guevara should we recall? The autocrat who executed hundreds of Batista collaborators outside Havana in 1959? The guerrillero captured in Bolivia? The warrior whose irreverence is a symbol all over the world? Or the unwilling icon of the cultural revolution of 1968? He would have preferred being remembered as the martyred revolutionary, but  he has become a cultural icon. That is his legacy, relevance and glory. - The New York Times *  Castañeda, Mexico’s foreign minister from 2000 to 2003, is a professor at New York University and the author of Compañero: The Life and Death of Che Guevara