Meanwhile, all eyes are on President Jacob Zuma, who has yet to release the findings of the inquiry chaired by Judge Jonathan Heher into higher education and training. Zuma received the final report in August. “We await the president’s determination and announcement in this regard,” Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba told MPs yesterday. He was delivering his Medium-Term Budget Policy Statement as students in the Western Cape marched to Parliament to demand that Zuma release the Heher Commission's report on the feasibility of free higher education. The commission was established in January last year following protests at higher learning institutions nationwide. This week University of the Western Cape vice-chancellor Dr Max Price led the call for the release of the report to determine the fee increase for 2018. Price said that without releasing the report, the institution has put budgetary plans for next year on ice. This seems to be the same for other institutions. The University of Stellenbosch has said they will increase fees by 8%. Tshwane University of Technology (TUT) spokesperson Willa de Ruyter said they had not made any decisions on student fees for 2018. “The university made extensive inputs to the commission on student fees in 2016. TUT, like the rest of the public universities in the higher education sector, is eagerly awaiting the release of the presidential report and the decisions that will come from government with respect to 2018 student fees,” De Ruyter said. She said that once the report is public, TUT will finalise its budget and academic planning for the 2018 academic year. Wits University spokesperson Buhle Zuma also said it was too early for the institution to make pronouncements on next year’s fees. “It is premature to make a decision on fee increases for 2018 without the release of the Fees Commission report. The university will have to make a decision on fee increases, if any, at the final council meeting in December,” she said. The University of Johannesburg said that while they are waiting for the report, they are “engaging with the UJ SRC, student societies leaders and house committees,” according to spokesperson Herman Esterhuizen. “While we await the president’s pronouncements on the matter of fee-free higher education, UJ will continue to seek ways of further expanding financial and other essential support to our most vulnerable students,” Esterhuizen said. Gigaba, however, said they would make every effort to ensure that academically deserving students were not excluded due to financial constraints. He also said the students had correctly put the question of higher education at the centre of the transformation agenda. “We cannot hope to grow and develop without the skills and intellectual capability that our universities and technical training colleges produce.” He said the higher education budget will be increased from the R77billion allocated this year to R97bn in 2020-21. The allocation seems to counter the annual protests at universities over a shortage of student accommodation. However, the National Treasury’s budget document notes that higher education is “a second major cost pressure” in the medium term. The report said there were funding shortfalls in the higher education sector.