This will be only weeks after they brought the city to a halt when they marched, causing chaos and disruptions. They said nothing had been done following their demands, made to Tshwane House in August. Yesterday, they complained that they had still not received any form of communication from the City despite, what they said, were promises that their licences would be cleared. During the previous protest, drivers brought major highways and intersections leading into the city to a standstill from early on in the morning. The drivers affiliated to different taxi associations came from Ga-Rankuwa, Mabopane, Soshanguve, Atteridgeville and 
Mamelodi. They blocked roads and drove their vehicles into the inner city, slowly and caused major traffic jams. As they approached the inner city, some of them walked ahead of the convoy of taxis, carrying various weapons including sjamboks, pangas and blades. Yesterday, they maintained their demands for the unconditional scrapping of all traffic fines; the immediate release of all Tshwane taxi drivers in prison for traffic-related offences; and, an investigation around the conduct of traffic officers. They also called for an investigation into corruption and collusion that allegedly involved some municipal court officials. In addition, thy demanded the identification and provision of pick-up and drop-off points throughout the city. More calls were made for the identification of land for purposes of holding stations in the CBD; to be allowed to use BRT facilities in the city; and, to be respected and treated the same as all road users. “Our main concern though is that, almost two months on, we are still driving without licences and professional driver’s permits,” said one of the drivers, who requested not to be named. He said: “We understand that we’re handling people’s lives every day but it seems like the government and delegated taxi associations do not take our profession seriously. The public needs to know that the city is allowing them to be transported by people without valid documents. "We know what we are doing is very wrong and risky but we are being driven out of providing for our families,” he added. The drivers estimated that in Mabopane, for instance, there were 300 drivers without the necessary documentation, while Mamelodi had over 400 and Soshanguve had close to 500 unlicensed drivers. Another driver said they had pleaded numerous times with the taxi associations, but they were not interested, only looking at them to generate profits. He said the reason they kept on calling on the city to heed their call was that if they got into accidents without the necessary licences, they often landed in jail. Also, without the documents even people who are not experienced were able to slip through the cracks, the drivers added. “We hope the public can push the government to act. We are willing to come to the table and find a way forward but no one is willing to listen. "If  need be, we will bring the City of Tshwane’s public transport to a halt,” he cautioned. Mayoral spokesperson Samkelo Mgobozi said the taxi drivers were over-simplifying the issues raised. He said although the City was well aware that the 21 days requested had lapsed, it was still in negotiations with the relevant taxi associations. Mgobozi said the call to scrap all fines was not that simple as some violations were criminal offences and fell under the national 
jurisdiction. “Some offences, such as overloading and drunk driving, can’t just be scrapped,” he said. Mgobozi said the argument of scrapping the fines had been raised before and it was not something the City could continue doing routinely. “The fines were scrapped before but it did not correct any problems and there were no lessons learnt, and billions were lost. Other municipalities are also battling with this issue and it is not that easy. “We concede that taxis play a vital role in the economy but at what point do we stop bending the rule of law for them? All stakeholders need to work towards a compromise through continuous engagements,” Mgobozi said. Threats to bring the city to a standstill were not in good faith and that the City would not be held ransom. He added the City would apply the law and take the necessary action.