Situated across the road from the famous Melrose House, Burgers Park is a sight to be seen while in spring bloom. It is the ideal venue for city dwellers who want to take a few minutes to get away from the hustle and bustle and just relax in the lush tranquillity. Once used as a camping area for the Voortrekkers before the city was established, the four-hectare Victorian style park has become a landmark in Tshwane. It was named after Thomas Francois Burgers, the fourth president of the Republic of South Africa.  As the oldest park in the city it was declared a national monument. It was established in 1892 as a botanical garden and it later changed to Burgers Park. George Hays, owner of Melrose House at the time, was responsible for the layout of the park, along with James Hunter, a botanist.  It falls under the City of Tshwane today, but the beautiful manicured lawns and shrubs are maintained by George Zietsman and his team. With its curved paths, it houses several imposing structures, such as a large fish pond with colourful water lilies, a florarium and a cast iron bandstand. The imposing bandstand was imported from the Saracen Foundry of Walter McFarlane in Glasgow, Scotland. The bandstand, with its Chinese pagoda-style roof, was erected in the park in 1895. It is said that on summer evenings the band of the 24th Regiment of Roberts Heights (now Thaba Tshwane) entertain visitors to the park from the bandstand. The park also houses a statue of President Burgers and a World War 1 monument to honour those in the South African Scottish Regiment who died in battle.  There is also a florarium on the north-eastern side of the park, which houses plants from four different climatic regions. This is open to the public from Mondays to Wednesdays and on weekends and public holidays. Another landmark is the Martha Washington Friendship tree, which was planted in 1932 to commemorate the 200th birthday of George Washington. The park was, until the 1920s, used for festivals and other social events. It is today mostly frequented by the city dwellers and others living in the area, as most people have moved out of the city centre. But the park, situated on the corners of Jeff Masemola, Lilian Ngoyi, Burgers and Thabo Sehume streets, is definitely worth a visit - both for its historical significance as well as its amazing fauna and flora. Entrance is free.