JAMES MAHLOKWANE
james.mahlokwane@inl.co.za SCIENTISTS, engineers and researchers from both the public and private sector exchanged ideas and projections about the role of science, technologies and innovation during the opening day of the 6th CSIR Bi-annual Conference in the city yesterday. Keynote speakers included Minister of Trade and Industry Rob Davies and founder of Future Nation Schools, Sizwe Nxasana. In his address, Davies said technological innovations and disruptive developments had arrived and could not be ignored, even in the agricultural sector. Davies said there was already a number of South African retail stores that were beginning to transform and have adapted electronic commerce. He said  the country was facing a future with fewer people sitting at tills in retail stores. He said such a development would result in job creations elsewhere, such as logistics and other skills areas. Davies said today the agricultural sector was relying heavily on technological innovations for quality control while lawyers take electronics to courtrooms to present evidence. He said this shows that technological change is happening whether we like it or not. The minister said small businesses have gained business opportunities from the use of  technological innovations such as drones and other machines which have eliminated human error in production. “The Department of Trade and Industry established a chief directorate that looks at future technologies to understand how middle-class countries should prepare for the fourth industrial revolution,” he concluded. Executive director of Trade and Industrial Policy Strategies, a non-profit economic research institute, Saul Levin, said industrial policy also played an important role in industrial development as it supported key industries and served as a link between different markets. Levin said South African still had not recovered from the 2008 and 2009 financial crisis and experienced a decline in investment and manufacturing contribution. He touched many hearts when he pointed out that the country had a low rate of self-employment because most South Africans who end up unemployed did not become self-employed, but just ended up as unemployed people. Although Levin acknowledged that some innovations threatened some jobs, he said there could not be a reduction in support for innovation because innovation supports industrial upgrading, which led to competitiveness. However, in closing, Levin said any innovations must take into account their impact on employment. Nxasana, also head of the National Student Financial Aid Scheme, took to the podium to discuss the role of skills and innovation as a driver for industrial development in South Africa. He said: “We now live in a knowledge economy and South Africa ranks 61st in the World of Economic Forum’s global competitiveness report.” He said higher education institutions were experiencing a stagnant amount of enrolments into the sciences, engineering and technology departments. He said it was concerning that there were about 300 000 youths who exit school before completing their matric, but were not captured and brought back into the economy by TVET colleges, which he said were supposed to serve that function, but were instead enrolling students who actually already completed matric. Nxasana’s take on the landscape of South Africa’s education moved the crowd as he pointed out various issues which the country had not gotten right to move the country forward through education. He said it was no longer enough to give each and every pupil in a classroom a table. He envisions a future where children were actually taught to create such applications by themselves.
Nxasana encouraged the state, the private sector and higher education institutions to come together and work to build a common goal.
The event concludes today. 