AP reported yesterday morning that following calls by Odinga - who is boycotting the rerun of the August elections annulled by the Supreme Court due to irregularities - the failure of some polling stations to open reflected a bitterly divided country. Odinga warned before yesterday’s rerun that unless there was significant reform of Kenya’s Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) he wouldn’t take part in the elections, while President Uhuru Kenyatta said reform could take place after polling day and that voting was paramount. In Kenya’s third-largest city of Kisumu, an opposition stronghold, many polling stations were closed with reports of opposition supporters blocking roads. A beefed-up police presence was evident in areas identified by the police as hot spots. The police had hitherto warned that they would take extra precautions to protect voters trying to reach the polling stations, as well as the polling stations themselves. However, clashes broke out early yesterday morning with police firing tear gas at opposition supporters in Kibera, a Nairobi slum. In areas where Kenyatta has support, voters had already turned out, but the turn-out was significantly lower than that of the August 8 elections. In Gatunda, Kenyatta’s home town, voters lined up before dawn as heavy rain disrupted electricity and the delivery of ballot papers. The tumultuous events leading up to the election rerun and the constitutional crisis that could result have led to analysts asking big questions. What does Odinga mean when he said on Wednesday that he would establish a resistance movement? In Africa this has often meant armed opposition to governments. Perhaps this was clarified by his later comment that as leader of the National Super Alliance party he would lead a civil disobedience campaign against the ruling Jubilee Party. But in an interview with AFP, Edward Kisiangani, a professor of political history at Nairobi’s Kenyatta University, said there were several questions that needed to be addressed when looking to the future. He said that since Kenya became independent in 1963, political and economic power had been concentrated in the hands of the Kikuyus, the largest of the country’s 44 ethnic groups. Odinga is a Luo. This fact required urgent reform to ensure fairer power-sharing as he expanded on how much Kenyan society was divided. “There have been such divisions since independence but this is unprecedented. We are more divided than we have ever been before. It’s about the crisis of sharing political power, it has never been very smooth,” said Kisiangani. The crisis could be resolved, according to the professor, by restoring confidence such as making it 
a criminal offence to hire family and friends for government jobs, 
and making it impossible to use elections to “dominate or threaten others”. Other changes included a need for the presidency to be structurally reformed to hand power back to the people. Kisiangani further suggested legal measures to weaken the presidency and strengthen institutions. “A way of doing it is to create a federal constitution which 
will empower more the governors and will increase the allocation 
of resources, budget to the 
counties. “We could have a referendum in the next year and make sure that the problems we have do not re-occur,” he said. - ANA